      The   City Journal              
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
        by City of St. Louis          
     Parrie L. May, Register          
       1206 Market Street             
       Room 118 City Hall             
    St. Louis, Missouri 63103         
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $26.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
    Periodicals postage paid at       
        St. Louis, Missouri           
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
        JOURNAL                    
         OF THE                    
  Board of                         
  Aldermen                         
      OF THE                       
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                 
       REGULAR                     
        SESSION                    
       2003-2004                   
 PRELIMINARY                       
  The following is a preliminary   
    draft of the minutes of the    
            meeting of             
       FRIDAY, MAY 2, 2003.        
 These minutes are unofficial and  
 subject to Aldermanic approval.   
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen       
 Chambers, May 2, 2003.                        
      The roll was called and the following    
 Aldermen answered to their names: Smith,      
 Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-Griffin, Reed,    
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,       
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, 
 Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, Boyd,       
 Sondermann Bauer, Kirner, Williamson, Carter, 
 Krewson and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 28      
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,  
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations   
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."         
     ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                       
    SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                   
    HONORABLE FRANCIS G. SLAY                  
     STATE OF THE CITY ADDRESS                 
          MAY 2, 2003 - 10:00 AM               
  BOARD OF ALDERMEN CHAMBERS                   
      Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of   
 the Board, distinguished guests.              
      I am very pleased to have the            
 opportunity this morning to address you on    
 the State of the City. I believe you are among
 the best group of aldermen that I've seen in  
 my time at City Hall.                         
       I look forward to working with you to   
 continue our progress making St. Louis a great
 City.                                         
      St. Louis, more than other places, is a     
city of neighborhoods. We are passionately        
attached to our homes, our own blocks, and        
the blocks around our homes that make up          
each of our neighborhoods.                        
      We value history and tradition. We like     
change, but we expect it to be gradual and        
always for the better. Our new cathedral was      
built in 1907 -- but we still have the old one,   
just in case things don't work out.               
      We love the familiar bricks and stones of   
our homes and public buildings. We know the       
alleys like we know our own hallways. We          
are proud of the park, the school, the library,   
or the monument up the street from our            
homes.                                            
      We think of the street lights, the          
dumpsters, and the stop signs -- particularly     
the stop signs -- as our very own. We love        
our families, and very often, the meaning of      
"family" extends to those who are our             
neighbors.                                        
      This passion for our own neighborhoods      
is one of the City's greatest strengths.          
      More so than people in newer cities or      
the suburbs, we share an enthusiasm with our      
neighbors for the places we live, and we count    
on the cooperation of our neighbors to get        
things done.                                      
     Our City neighborhoods, nearly 80 of         
them in all, are as different from each other as  
places to live can be. This diversity, too, is    
one of our City's enduring strengths.             
      In the two years since I was elected        
mayor, I have made improving the quality of       
life in our neighborhoods the focus of my         
work.                                             
       As someone who has lived most of his       
life in the same neighborhood in which he grew    
up, I know what it takes to make a strong         
neighborhood.                                     
     A good neighborhood needs reasons to         
believe that things are getting better, not       
worse.                                            
     We need reason to believe that our           
families are safe.                                
      We need reassurance that our properties     
are increasing in value, not decreasing.          
      We need places to walk, and play, and       
exercise. Places to park. Places to shop. Places  
to eat. Places to learn. Places to pray. Places   
to meet our neighbors.                            
      And, we need the sorts of investment in     
infrastructure that keep our neighborhoods        
looking well-maintained.                          
      As proof of what I say, one need look       
 no further than this Board. In any other city,   
 your duties would be different -- and your       
 phones would ring less.                          
       In St. Louis, though, the love of our      
 neighborhoods keeps each of you -- and the       
 rest of city government -- busy answering the    
 thousands of calls and requests that our         
 neighbors have concerning the smallest-- and     
 biggest-- things in their neighborhoods.         
      When I ran for this job, I had a plan to    
 improve the quality of life in our               
 neighborhoods. That plan has five major          
 components:                                      
      1. Improved neighborhood services           
      2. Reduced crime                            
      3. Better schools                           
      4. Integrity and efficiency in City         
         government, and                          
      5. Access to good jobs                      
       When I became mayor, I asked every         
 city department to treat taxpayers' hard-earned  
 money carefully.                                 
       I asked the Departments to take on the     
 tasks of improving city government, and          
 bettering the quality of services provided to    
 neighborhoods and to the people living in them.  
 Protecting them. Keeping them strong and         
 growing. Keeping them clean, and, most of        
 all, making sure the neighborhoods remain the    
 places that people want to settle into, make     
 friends, raise families, and enjoy their lives.  
       I believe that we have been successful,    
 and I can report to you today that the State of  
 our City is strong.                              
       Despite the economy, despite our fiscal    
 challenges, crime is down. Property values       
 are up.                                          
      The quality of life in neighborhood after   
 neighborhood is improving.                       
       There is four-and-a-half billion dollars   
 worth of construction just finished, being       
 built, or on the drawing board.                  
      For the first time in a very long time,     
 most people feel optimistic about the City's     
 future.                                          
       As examples of our strength, I would       
 like to talk to you today about my               
 Neighborhood Life Initiatives - a continuing     
 series of programs to combat problems in         
 neighborhoods head on-- providing                
 manpower, law enforcement, planning,             
 coordination, and legal support to address       
 challenges in our neighborhoods.                 
      The first Neighborhood Life Initiative I   
 proposed was the Problem Properties             
 Program.                                        
      I wanted this program to be first, because 
 we all know that even one bad neighbor or       
 landlord can undermine the efforts of every     
 good person on the block.                       
       Problem Properties was designed to        
 identify the worst and most persistent          
 offenders and force them to correct housing,    
 building, and life/safety violations on their   
 properties. We have dedicated three full-time   
 police officers, a full-time staff of attorneys,
 a Problem Properties Court and judge, and       
 the full attention of City government. Charles  
 Bryson from my office has made Problem          
 Properties, and the other Neighborhood Life     
 Initiatives, his personal passion.              
      Thanks to Mr. Bryson and his team,         
 problems such as derelict and abandoned         
 buildings, slum landlords, overcrowded          
 residences, and building code violations are    
 being dealt with directly and forcefully.       
      And we are getting results.                
      Let me show you one example. [Over         
 on the easel, is a "before" photograph of a     
 property that was run-down for years.]          
       Now, let me show you the "after". As a    
 result of the work of the problem property      
 strike force, this house has been cleaned up,   
 occupied and put back on the tax roles.         
      That is happening in neighborhoods         
 throughout the City. We are holding people      
 accountable for what they do to our             
 neighborhoods.                                  
      Hundreds of property owners have been      
 located by our task force and thousands of      
 dormant and outstanding warrants have been      
 served, and the City put a very stubborn        
 housing scofflaw in jail for 33 days, where he  
 was able to spend some time weighing the        
 merits of following the housing code.           
      This program has shown phenomenal          
 progress in improving our neighborhoods.        
      Everyone, except a slumlord or two,        
 has been very pleased with the results.         
      I applaud City Counselor Patti Hageman,    
 Steve Kovac, Public Safety director Sam         
 Simon, and all the others responsible for       
 making this effort such a success.              
      I want to report on our second Initiative: 
 our Trash Task Force.                           
       As anyone at the Citizen's Service        
 Bureau will tell you, the City gets thousands   
 of calls a year asking for help in cleaning up  
 piles of trash, alleys choked with trash, vacant
 lots heaped with trash, and streets dotted with 
 abandoned cars.                                 
      A regrettable, but familiar pattern has    
emerged in some neighborhoods. People dump       
trash, the City picks it up. They dump again,    
the City picks it up, and so on.                 
     In the last year, the City picked up 5,000  
tons of illegally dumped trash, costing          
taxpayers millions of dollars.                   
     We are committed to breaking that cycle.    
       So, we have launched Clean Up St. Louis   
-- a vigorous program aimed at cracking down     
on illegal dumping and trash accumulation in     
our neighborhoods.                               
     In the last two years:                      
    1. More than 1,200 citations have been       
made for illegal dumping,                        
      2. More than 100 arrests have been made    
for accumulated trash violations, and            
    3. 2,100 abandoned cars have been            
towed.                                           
      Neighbors are telling us that they're      
happy to see the trash go, and neighborhoods     
are looking better.                              
      That improvement is, in no small           
measure, due to city employees doing their       
jobs - and doing them well.                      
     Over the past two years, living in City     
neighborhoods has become popular again.          
     Property values in the City are rising at   
more than double the rate of St. Louis County.   
     The number of people seeking residential    
building permits is on the rise.                 
     The average price of a new home in the      
City has risen in the last two years by more     
than 20%.                                        
       Neighborhoods that have not seen new      
investment in decades are being brought back     
to life.                                         
      Two of the reasons for our                 
neighborhoods' renaissance are in the chambers   
this morning: Police Chief Joe Mokwa and         
Fire Chief Sherman George. Both men are          
outstanding civil servants and good neighbors.   
     Even with the tough budget years, there     
are 100 more police officers on the streets      
today than one year ago.                         
      As never before, there is a coordinated    
effort to crack down on crime, keeping my        
office, the St. Louis police department, United  
States Attorney Ray Gruender, and St. Louis      
Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce in touch with    
each other.                                      
      As a result, the homicide rate was down    
by 25% in 2002; and in the first quarter of      
this year, the homicide rate was down by 36%.    
       That did not happen by accident.               
 I applaud Chief Mokwa and his outstanding            
 officers' hard work and bravery.                     
      The chief asked me point out for special        
 mention several programs within the Police           
 Department that are specifically targeting           
 problems in neighborhoods with the highest           
 crime rates.                                         
      According to police reports, 47% of all         
 violent crimes occur in just 12 neighborhoods.       
       Chief Mokwa and his officers have given        
 these neighborhoods some very special                
 attention over the last two years. And they          
 have made important progress in returning            
 those neighborhoods back to the law-abiding,         
 peaceful people who live there.                      
      Would Officer Christine Fernandez,              
 Lieutenant Jerry Leyschock, and Officer              
 Ronnie Robinson please stand?                        
       Officer Christine Fernandez, assigned to       
 the Sixth District, is back on duty after being      
 shot while trying to assist at the scene of a car    
 accident in October 2002, when one of the            
 parties involved pulled a gun and opened fire.       
        In her act of bravery, after having suffered  
 life-threatening injuries, she was able to return    
 fire, disabling the suspect until backup officers    
 arrived.                                             
       Please join me in applauding Officer           
 Christine Fernandez for her bravery in the           
 line of duty.                                        
      Lieutenant Leyschock heads the Police           
 Department's Housing Authority Unit,                 
 patrolling the City's public housing                 
 developments.                                        
       For too long, some public housing              
 developments have been havens for people             
 wanted for serious crimes, and places in which       
 criminals felt safe selling narcotics, keeping       
 weapons, trespassing, and chopping up stolen         
 cars.                                                
      The focus of the Housing Authority              
 Unit is to be as visible as possible, and to         
 have positive interaction with the tenants.          
       Officers assigned to the Unit are              
 committed to the law-abiding residents of            
 public housing. They know that the results of        
 effective public-housing policing are tangible,      
 so they attend tenant meetings in the                
 developments, and try to act on concerns of          
 the residents.                                       
      Officers assigned to this Unit tell me          
 that they are finally seeing their crime             
 indicators lowering, and they are optimistic         
 about the future of the neighborhoods in which       
 they are patrolling.                                 
      Let's applaud the hard work of the            
 officers of the Housing Authority Unit, and        
 encourage them to keep up the good work            
 they are doing in making neighborhoods safer       
 places to live.                                    
      Sergeant Ronnie Robinson heads the            
 Police Department's Gang Unit, responsible         
 for monitoring the growth, development,            
 movement and activities of gangs and their         
 members.                                           
      These officers teach parents and teachers     
 about the signs that young people are involved     
 with gangs.                                        
      They also participate in the St. Louis        
 Police Athletic League, coaching and               
 coordinating sports teams and activities to        
 develop personal relationships with children       
 who are at high risk, to keep them from            
 becoming involved with crime and gangs. It is      
 high energy, emotionally draining, around-the-     
 clock police work.                                 
      I'd like to applaud the work the Gang         
 Unit officers are doing.                           
      I know they put in more time to help          
 these kids than ever shows up in their             
 paychecks, and I congratulate them on their        
 dedication to their jobs.                          
       Finally, the Chief asked me to remind        
 you about the Safe City web site, an online        
 computer program that lets police and              
 residents access neighborhood crime                
 information. No other police website in the        
 region - or, even the country, shares as much      
 information as ours does. It is another tool       
 and innovation that will reduce crime in our       
 City.                                              
       Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce believes     
 the same thing.                                    
       The Circuit Attorney's Office has a new      
 website that provides detailed information on      
 the status of criminal cases in the city, including
 sentences, that can now be read online.            
       Taking advantage of technology will          
 improve City government in many other              
 ways. Imagine being able to track your request     
 for service at the Citizen's Service Bureau...     
 or applying for a permit or paying a parking       
 ticket over the Internet.                          
       Better services, delivered more quickly      
 and more efficiently, lie ahead as we begin to     
 implement the technology bill you passed           
 earlier this year.                                 
      Another vital component of our                
 neighborhoods is the work of Fire Department       
 and Emergency Medical Service personnel.           
    Our Fire Department, under the expert           
 command of Fire Chief Sherman George,              
responds to 43,000 fire calls, and more than      
68,000 EMS calls, each year, saving lives and     
property.                                         
       They do their dangerous jobs bravely,      
and well. If I introduced the Fire Department's   
heroes this morning, there would not be           
enough room for the rest of us, because every     
man and woman on that department is a hero.       
If I told all their stories, there would not be   
enough time to talk about anything else.          
     But, Chief George wanted me to introduce     
you to a Fire Department hero who doesn't         
own boots or a fire hat.                          
     Mrs. Melanie Johnson is a Program            
Manager for the Fire Department's Emergency       
Medical Service's Billing Department. Mrs.        
Johnson, could you please stand?                  
     Chief George wanted me to mention            
Mrs. Johnson, instead of himself, because he      
was proud of what she did. So, am I.              
    The books at EMS have always been a           
mess, and service has always outstripped          
payment.                                          
      Under Mrs. Johnson's supervision, new       
billing procedures have been initiated in EMS,    
including a credit card payment system. As a      
result of this new system and Mrs. Johnson's      
work, the City has collected an additional        
million dollars.                                  
     At a time when every dollar is needed to     
deliver high-quality services, that is worth a    
round of applause.                                
      Continuing with the accolades for the       
Department of Public Safety, the City's new       
Justice Center was built on budget and opened     
on time.                                          
      It currently employs more than 240 staff    
members and has approximately 460 inmates.        
And, based on the fact that I haven't seen it     
on television lately, I can tell that everything  
is running smoothly.                              
      Although our police officers and            
firefighters are the city's most visible public   
employees, there are thousands more men and       
women who also contribute to our                  
neighborhoods by their timely patching,           
paving, pruning, planting, and repairing.         
      They are smarter and more innovative        
than city employees of only a decade ago.         
They are delivering their services faster and     
better. And, with the assistance of our           
CitiView program, we expect to continue to        
stretch each taxpayer dollar, helping our         
employees to work even better and faster.         
     Some of the City's most important            
amenities are its parks - green spaces that       
range in size from the magnificence of the        
 nearly restored Forest Park to tiny pocket       
 parks and playgrounds that serve as points of    
 neighborhood pride and enjoyment.                
       During the last two years, the Forestry    
 Division has taken more than 60,000 service      
 requests - roughly one-fourth of all requested   
 city services.                                   
       Its employees have removed dangerous       
 trees, maintained vacant and weed-filled         
 properties, planted thousands of new saplings    
 and young trees, distributed wood chips and      
 mulch, and led the neighborhood battle against   
 places mosquitoes could breed.                   
       And, the renovation of eight park          
 playgrounds throughout the city, including the   
 installation of new playground equipment and     
 rubberized surfaces, will make a lot of          
 neighborhood children happy this summer.         
       The Refuse Division hauls away tons of     
 trash from our neighborhood dumpsters and        
 receptacles. Their work is excellent. In a       
 customer survey, they were given an A.           
       But, it isn't often that we acknowledge    
 them or their work. I would like to change       
 that today.                                      
      Would Johnnie Edwards please stand?         
       While Mr. Edwards was on his route         
 late last year, he saw two marauding dogs -      
 pit bulls -- attacking a woman and her           
 Dalmatian. Mr. Edwards immediately               
 stopped his truck, jumped out, radioed for       
 help, and, finally, used a 2-by-4 board to       
 convince the dogs to release the woman and       
 her dog.                                         
       Please join me in applauding Mr. Johnnie   
 Edwards for an act of heroism well beyond        
 his job description.                             
      Few of the City's Charter                   
 responsibilities are as important - or have      
 been more difficult to address - than the        
 mandate to maintain public health.               
       At every level, health is a key component  
 of stable neighborhoods: healthy kids stay in    
 school; healthy parents go to work; and          
 healthy people are vital contributors to our     
 city.                                            
       For the first time in a very long time, a  
 mayor can stand in front of you and report       
 that the Health Department is healthier.         
      For the past 2 years, senior Health         
 Department managers led by Health                
 Commissioner Melba Moore, have worked            
 to implement standard accounting policies and    
 procedures, restoring the fiscal integrity to    
 the Department and repairing relationships       
 with various funding sources.                    
      That effort is paying off. When I took      
 office, the Missouri Health Director told me     
 the City's Ryan White Title II grant was 95%     
 out of compliance.                               
      I am proud to report that a few weeks       
 ago, the State of Missouri enthusiastically      
 re-instated the St. Louis Health Department      
 to administer the Ryan White funds again.        
      Under the leadership of Melba Moore         
 and the Health Director, Dr. Hugh Stallworth,    
 our health department is again becoming a        
 leader in combating disease.                     
        At their direction, the health department 
 has:                                             
       1. Developed a strategic, comprehensive    
 plan of attack on the West Nile mosquito         
 outbreak in the area, spraying over 4,800 miles  
 of St. Louis neighborhoods and treating more     
 than a thousand mosquito infested sites last     
 summer;                                          
      2. Developed a comprehensive                
 childhood lead poisoning prevention program,     
 screening over 28,000 children and removing      
 lead paint hazards in more than 170 homes;       
     3. Developed a Sickle Cell Anemia donor      
 match program, partnering with area churches;    
     4. Begun a new partnership with Saint        
 Louis University that will improve the Health    
 Department's professionalism and efficiency.     
      Its sister agency, the Department of        
 Human Services is also improving. In the last    
 year, they:                                      
      1. Won an $8 million federal grant to       
 provide housing and services for the area's      
 homeless;                                        
      2. With the Housing Authority, launched     
 the Bridge to Homeownership program that         
 allows people to apply their federal housing     
 vouchers to home purchases; and                  
       3. Developed "Social Serve dot com", a     
 website designed to help low-income families     
 find affordable housing online, eliminating the  
 need to make multiple phone calls and drive      
 around the city to find places to live.          
      This is a time of new possibilities in the  
 City of St. Louis.                               
     We are seeing people and businesses          
 coming back into our City.                       
      We are seeing real progress in the fight    
 against violent crime.                           
        This is all good news.                    
      But in order for all of these promising     
 trends to become lasting realities - in order    
 for St. Louis to live up to its vast potential as
 one of America's great cities - there is another 
 step we must take.                               
     We must give our children - all of our      
children - access to a good education, an        
education that prepares them for the complex     
challenges of the twenty-first century.          
     In order to achieve this, we must come      
together as a community to transform the St.     
Louis Public Schools.                            
     We need to prepare our children so they     
have a real opportunity to pursue their dreams.  
We need to prepare our children for good-        
paying jobs and to be good citizens.             
     It has not been happening.                  
     This step cannot be ignored. It cannot      
be skipped. It cannot be put off for another     
generation - or another year. It has already     
been put off for far too long. It must be taken  
now.                                             
     At a time when we are taking steps to       
rebuild our city's population base, we need      
excellent public schools that keep families in   
the city - and that attract new residents        
seeking the best education for their kids.       
      And at a time when we are doing            
everything in our power to open the doors of     
opportunity for all of our people, we need       
excellent public schools that will close the     
academic achievement gap - not only the gap      
between black students and white students,       
but the achievement gap between our public       
schools and the very best public schools in      
the United States.                               
       Developing truly excellent public         
schools will not be easy. It will take time. It  
will take hard work. It will take a commitment   
from all parts of this diverse city.             
     But we must do it - and we can do it.       
      With Dr. Donald Suggs, members of the      
Black Leadership Roundtable, Civic Progress,     
the St. Louis Labor Council, the Regional        
Business Council, parents, and neighborhood      
activists, we formed the St. Louis Education     
Coalition.                                       
     Our mission is to produce dramatic          
improvement in the education of children.        
     Our first task was to elect four new        
school board members.                            
      We have done that. Now, the real work      
lies ahead.                                      
       Progress in our schools means better      
prepared students, safer schools, stronger       
fiscal controls, better trained and paid         
teachers, higher graduation and attendance       
rates, and more kids getting good jobs or going  
on to college.                                   
      To support the new School Board's          
efforts:                                         
      1. I raised more than $700,000 to launch     
 Teach for America here a year ago, giving forty-  
 one recent college graduates in the Teach for     
 America program the opportunity to teach in       
 urban schools, while giving our City's school     
 children the opportunity to interact with         
 bright, dedicated people from other cities        
 around the country.                               
       2. I campaigned for Proposition 1 to get    
 the rest of our public schools air-conditioned,   
 which city voters passed overwhelmingly a         
 few weeks ago;                                    
      3. I asked Judge Bettye Battle-Turner        
 to expand the Truancy Court. The goal of          
 Judge Battle-Turner's court is to improve         
 school attendance and performance at all          
 schools.                                          
       Judge Battle-Turner gets parents            
 involved in their children's schooling by         
 holding them equally responsible for their        
 children's truancy.                               
      We have expanded the program from            
 three cases prior to 2001, to more than 600       
 cases in the system now.                          
      Judge Battle-Turner, could you please        
 stand?                                            
       Let's give Judge Battle-Turner a hand       
 for her dedication to the education of our        
 children.                                         
       Employment opportunities are another        
 important and obvious component of the            
 success of our neighborhoods. Working people      
 contribute to the City's economy, provide for     
 their families, and contribute to the overall     
 stability of their neighborhoods.                 
       The St. Louis Agency on Training and        
 Employment, SLATE, spearheaded a                  
 recruitment and training project for the new      
 Renaissance Grand Hotel downtown,                 
 providing over 180 jobs for Empowerment           
 Zone/Enterprise Community residents this          
 past January.                                     
       The project was an overwhelming             
 success, filling all the jobs requested by the    
 hotel.                                            
       Last summer, SLATE provided jobs to         
 more than 700 young people, placing most of       
 them in jobs with private employers. The          
 key to the success of this program is getting     
 our kids real work experience--and getting        
 employers to recognize that city kids can be      
 great workers.                                    
      We hope to do even better this summer.       
      Today, more people are coming to see         
 St. Louis as a great place to do business.        
       Thanks to everyone here and the hard-   
 working staff at the City's development       
 agencies, we are changing attitudes about the 
 City's future--and more and more people are   
 choosing the City as the place they want to   
 live, work or build a business.               
      Four great new directors now lead our    
 City's development agencies: Rodney Crim      
 at SLDC--Kathy Brown at CDA--Rollin           
 Stanley at the Planning and Urban Design      
 Agency--and Tom Jones at SLATE. These         
 new directors have made these agencies teem   
 with new life and new capacity. Together      
 with Barbara Geisman of my staff, they make   
 up the most talented neighborhood and         
 business development team in the state.       
       Much of the public's attention on the   
 City's last two years has been focused on big 
 developments: the opening of the Renaissance  
 Grand Hotel; the opening of the Homer G.      
 Phillips Senior Living complex; the completion
 of the public part of the packaging for a new 
 Cardinals ballpark and Ballpark Village; the  
 Old Post Office development and Grand         
 Center.                                       
      But the City has actually spent far more 
 effort, and attracted much less attention, on 
 hundreds of development initiatives in all    
 parts of the City.                            
      And more and more developers are         
 viewing the City as a place to build success. 
      Conrad Properties, a premier St. Louis   
 County developer, has chosen to develop new   
 housing on Forest Park Boulevard and in       
 Lafayette Square. And they have more City     
 projects on the drawing board...              
       Koman Properties, a premier regional    
 retail developer, has chosen to build a new   
 shopping center at Grand Avenue and Dr.       
 Martin Luther King Boulevard. Koman, too,     
 wants to do more.                             
      Kimco, a Chicago developer, has          
 invested millions of dollars in the           
 reconstruction of a shopping plaza at Gravois 
 and Gustine.                                  
      With Alderwoman Flowers at the helm,     
 we are focused on making the Baden Business   
 District an attractive entryway to the Baden  
 neighborhood--and an attractive entryway to   
 the new riverfront trail.                     
      We continue to develop our potential to  
 create new technology companies and jobs      
 through technology incubators like the Center 
 for Emerging Technologies and the newly       
 created Technology Entrepreneur Center        
 downtown. I am happy to welcome Global        
 Velocity to downtown St. Louis - the first    
 company being developed in the Technology     
 Entrepreneur Center.                          
      And I am happy to report that under          
the leadership of John Dubinsky, the Danforth      
Foundation, SLU and BJC, the Technopolis           
project is now moving forward to keep these        
growing new life sciences and technology           
businesses right here in the City of St. Louis.    
     Mary "One" Johnson has launched a             
development business and is building new           
homes throughout the City--in St. Louis            
Place, in the Gate District, and in the Ville.     
      Tony Thompson has bought a building          
on Washington Avenue--after completely             
rehabilitating the structure, he has moved his     
business, Kwame Construction, from Clayton         
to downtown St. Louis and produced loft            
living space in the process.                       
      Thanks to Alderman Mike McMillan,            
Alderman Lewis Reed, Cheryl Lovell of the          
Housing Authority, John Steffen and                
McCormack Baron, a new Blumeyer HOPE               
VI is now underway--and the Darst Webbe            
Hope VI is almost completed. And the long-         
awaited rehabilitation of City Hospital will       
begin this summer.                                 
     Martin Jaffe, Arthur El-Amin and Bank         
of America are all building new market rate        
housing north of Delmar--and selling these         
homes for what it costs to build them.             
     House by house, block by block, it is         
becoming more difficult to ignore a budding        
renaissance of the neighborhoods of North St.      
Louis.                                             
     These new homes--and new and                  
rehabilitated homes throughout the City--          
form the basis for a retail market that is as yet  
untapped.                                          
     I've been meeting regularly with the          
region's retail developers--all of whom view       
the City a great retail market for the future.     
     As we complete the land use plan that         
we've been working on with all of you              
aldermen, we will have sites throughout the        
City where new retail development can occur.       
      And we're also working on new sites          
for industrial development. On the North           
Riverfront, in Alderwomen Phyllis Young's,         
April Ford-Griffin's and Dionne Flowers'           
wards, we will soon have a plan for new            
business parks--so that the many businesses        
who want to be in the city but need 15-acre        
sites have places to go.                           
     The plan will also identify sites for new     
subdivisions--so that the multitude of regional    
homebuilders who now want to do business           
in our City have places to do their work.          
      And the plan will identify neighborhoods     
throughout the City that are attractive and        
unique, where we want to preserve what's           
there and build on its attractiveness.             
       I'm working hard to keep the businesses     
 we have--and to attract new businesses to         
 our City. I personally visit with businesses      
 that are thinking about leaving the City--and     
 I personally visit with businesses that are       
 contemplating a relocation within our             
 boundaries. Knowing that a Mayor cares what       
 they do has changed their attitudes as well.      
       And most of these businesses truly          
 appreciate what the City has to offer--great      
 transportation, unique living and workspace,      
 exciting and lively entertainment options--       
 and most of all a city government that cares.     
      While we are working hard on new             
 development, we are also focused on the           
 preservation and rehabilitation of our unique     
 and attractive historic structures.               
       In Alderman Reed's Tower Grove East         
 neighborhood, we've embarked on the               
 Rehab-a-Rama--a concentrated effort to            
 rehabilitate and market the vacant and            
 underutilized historic structures in this         
 neighborhood. I'm happy to report that every      
 city-owned building in this area is now in the    
 hands of a developer or a homeowner actively      
 working on its rebirth.                           
       We are working with other aldermen on       
 the creation of new historic districts that can   
 take advantage of state and federal historic tax  
 credits--a unique development incentive that      
 has spurred millions of dollars in construction   
 work in the City of St. Louis since 1997.         
       And we are working very hard, with the      
 Landmarks Association, with the Downtown          
 Partnership, and with local developers to         
 preserve the state historic tax credit, an        
 essential program that was threatened this year   
 in the state's budget crisis.                     
      I am confident that with the coalition       
 we have built we will succeed.                    
       Teamwork is the key to city                 
 development--and teamwork is the key to           
 the City's future. During the past two years,     
 I've focused a lot of energy on building new      
 teams.                                            
      We now have a team that is working           
 together to rebuild downtown St. Louis. I         
 thank Peter Sortino of St. Louis 2004, Tom        
 Reeves of Downtown Now! and Jim Cloar             
 and John Dubinsky of the Downtown St.             
 Louis Partnership for their willingness to work   
 with us as partners to launch and complete        
 major projects--and to address the issues that    
 a complex neighborhood like downtown faces        
 every day.                                        
      We now have teams throughout the City        
 that are working together to rebuild our          
 neighborhoods--city staff, Aldermen,              
 developers and neighborhood residents.            
       We now have teams throughout the City     
 who are working together to attract new         
 business, to keep the business we have--and     
 to let everyone know that the City is a great   
 place to work. I thank Don Woehle in            
 particular for his unstinting marketing of      
 downtown.                                       
       We now have teamwork with most            
 members of this Board of Aldermen. We know      
 that you are our partners and that together we  
 can succeed. We are all--throughout City        
 government--focused on getting things done.     
 This, too, is a new attitude in City government.
       My administration is also committed to    
 including everyone in our prosperity, in        
 creating real opportunities for all people, not 
 just sham chances and simple window             
 dressing.                                       
      To make that possible, we streamlined      
 the minority certification process to reduce    
 the hassle for legitimate minority companies.   
 What used to take a year and a lot of money     
 has been reduced to 60 days-- making it much    
 easier, and much less expensive, for            
 disadvantaged businesses to get up and running  
 quickly.                                        
     And we are not tolerating front             
 companies.                                      
      Since we consolidated services, more       
 than 30 companies that had been certified by    
 the previous administration have lost their     
 certification because they were not real        
 minority firms doing real work.                 
      Considering the values at stake, we held   
 everyone responsible for the certification      
 process accountable for their actions.          
       That notion of greater accountability -   
 by managers, by City employees, by all of us    
 - is going to become even more important        
 over the next two years than it has been in the 
 past.                                           
       During the last two years, the City's     
 tight finances had all of us looking for things 
 we didn't need to do, or things we could do     
 better.                                         
       Cell phones, take-home cars, bad billing  
 practices, travel expenses, and big employee    
 raises were all examined and new policies were  
 adopted.                                        
       The atmosphere over the next two years    
 will be even more austere.                      
      With the demands imposed upon the          
 City by the federal and state governments,      
 our budgets are going to be even tighter.       
      With stocks depressed and leisure and      
 business travel sharply curtailed, our revenues 
 will rise far less sharply than our budget      
 analysts had predicted.                         
      Yet, our real needs - safe neighborhoods,    
affordable healthcare, good schools, well-         
maintained roads, recreational opportunities,      
job training, and new and current business         
development - will be even greater.                
      That calculus - less to spend and more       
to do - means that every one of us will have       
to do more with fewer resources.                   
     We have sent over a budget that I hope        
you will read fairly - and pass quickly.           
     We will have to butcher a few sacred          
cows, including a popular, but expensive, sick-    
leave buy-back program.                            
     When you pass this budget, there will         
be fewer City employees.                           
     But - and this is most important to           
remember - this budget will allow the City to      
serve all of its citizens, especially its weakest  
and poorest residents, better - while allowing     
the City to continue to invest in economic         
development so that we can grow our way            
out of the current budget crunch.                  
     This budget will give City employees          
the tools they need, better tools than they        
have now, to get their jobs done.                  
       We share a mandate, given to us by our      
neighbors, to make this a great City. These        
first two years have passed quickly.               
     Two years ago, I said we were at a            
crossroads: down one path was a great city,        
and down the other was a city that would           
never be great.                                    
     We are no longer at that crossroads.          
     We have come a long way down the right        
road. We have accomplished a lot together.         
      There is a palpable sense of momentum        
- and of pride -- in our neighborhoods. Living     
in the City has never been more popular.           
     I know, though, that there is still a lot     
more to do . . . together.                         
     Over the next two years, then, we have        
these tasks:                                       
     1. Safe neighborhoods;                        
     2. More efficient government, doing more      
with less;                                         
      3. Strong and continued assistance to our    
children and our seniors;                          
     4. Better schools; and                        
     5. Many new seeds of economic growth          
planted throughout the entire City.                
     This is an agenda of which we can be          
proud.                                             
       I want to thank you for your careful   
 attention to a long speech.                  
     God bless our City, and God bless        
 America.                                     
      Thank you.                              
          INTRODUCTION OF                     
           HONORED GUEST                      
 None.                                        
      APPROVAL OF MINUTES                     
      OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS                    
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the         
 minutes for April 14 and 15, 2003.           
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                  
         Report of the Clerk                  
     of the Board of Aldermen                 
      None.                                   
          Office of the Mayor                 
      None.                                   
    Petitions & Communications                
      None.                                   
  BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                  
     -INFORMAL CALENDAR                       
      None.                                   
            BOARD BILLS FOR                   
             THIRD READING                    
         - INFORMAL CALENDAR                  
      None.                                   
              RESOLUTIONS                     
         - INFORMAL CALENDAR                  
      None.                                   
          FIRST READING OF                    
             BOARD BILLS                      
 Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced by       
 request:                                     
              Board Bill No. 1                
      An ordinance making appropriation for   
 payment of Interest, Expenses and Principal  
 of the City's Bonded Indebtedness,           
 establishing City tax rates, and making      
 appropriation for current year expenses of   
 the City Government, Water Division, St.     
 Louis Airport Commission, Affordable         
 Housing Trust Fund, Health Care Trust Fund,  
 Use Tax Excess Trust Fund, Building          
 Demolition Fund, Assessor, Victim's Fund,    
 Communications Division, Forest Park Fund,   
 Child Support Unit (Circuit Attorney's       
 Office), Circuit Attorney Training and       
 Collection Fee Funds, Port Administration,   
 Peace Officer Training Fund, Capital         
 Improvement Projects Fund, Capital           
 Improvements Sales Tax Trust Fund, Metro     
 Parks Sales Tax Fund, Centralized Mailroom       
 Internal Service Fund, Tourism Fund, Lateral     
 Sewer Fund, Miscellaneous Special Funds,         
 Trustee Lease Fund, Riverfront Gaming Fund,      
 Various Grant Funds, Tax Increment District      
 Special Allocation Fund, City Convention and     
 Sports Facility Trust Fund and Employee          
 Benefits Fund (Department of Personnel); for     
 the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2003 and       
 ending June 30, 2004, amounting in the           
 aggregate to the sum of Eight Hundred Twenty     
 Four Million, Two Hundred Eighty Six             
 Thousand, One Hundred Seventy Six Dollars        
 ($824,286,176) which sum is hereby               
 appropriated from Revenue and Special Funds      
 named for the purposes hereinafter               
 enumerated and containing an emergency           
 clause.                                          
 Board Member Conway introduced by                
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 68                    
       An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing        
 and directing the City of St. Louis, Missouri    
 and St. Louis Municipal Finance Corporation      
 to enter into a sale/leaseback, lease/leaseback  
 or similar structured finance arrangement        
 acceptable to the parties authorized hereby      
 relating to the Convention Center Property;      
 authorizing said Corporation, the Mayor, the     
 Comptroller and any other appropriate City       
 officials to execute and deliver documents and   
 instruments related thereto; and authorizing     
 and directing the taking of other actions and    
 the approval and execution of other              
 documents as necessary or desirable to carry     
 out and comply with the intent hereof.           
 Board Member Young introduced by                 
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 69                    
      An ordinance establishing the Fox Park      
 Historic District; having as its subject matter  
 the boundary and regulations and standards       
 for the Fox Park Historic District and           
 containing a severability clause.                
 Board Member Sondermann introduced by            
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 70                    
       An      ordinance         approving       a
 Redevelopment Plan for the 6930 and 6942         
 Hancock Avenue Area ("Area") after finding       
 that the Area is a blighted as defined in Section
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,      
 2000, as amended, (the "Statute" being           
 Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),            
 containing a description of the boundaries of    
 said Area in the City of St. Louis ("City"),     
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
 Exhibit "A", finding that redevelopment and      
 rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of 
the public health, safety, morals and general       
welfare of the people of the City; approving        
the Plan dated March 25, 2003, for the Area         
("Plan"), incorporated herein by attached           
Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;            
finding there is a feasible financial plan for the  
development of the Area which affords               
maximum opportunity for development of the          
Area by private enterprise; finding that no         
property in the Area may be acquired by the         
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority          
of the City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through           
the existence of eminent domain; finding that       
the property within the Area is unoccupied,         
but if it should become occupied the                
Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating     
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of     
implementation of the Plan; finding that there      
shall be available ten (10) year real estate tax    
abatement; and pledging cooperation of the          
Board of Aldermen and requesting various            
officials, departments, boards and agencies of      
the city to cooperate and to exercise their         
respective powers in a manner consistent with       
the Plan.                                           
Board Member McMillan introduced by                 
request:                                            
            Board Bill No. 71                       
      An       ordinance      approving        a    
Redevelopment Plan for the 4200-02 Cook             
Avenue Area ("Area") after finding that the         
Area is blighted as defined in Section 99.320       
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as       
amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300       
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description      
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of       
St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and             
incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding         
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the        
Area is in the interest of the public health,       
safety, morals and general welfare of the people    
of the City; approving the Plan dated February      
25, 2003, for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated       
herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to         
Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible    
financial plan for the development of the Area      
which affords maximum opportunity for               
development of the Area by private enterprise;      
finding that no property in the Area may be         
acquired by the Land Clearance for                  
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.          
Louis ("LCRA") through the existence of             
eminent domain; finding that the property           
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should     
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be            
responsible for relocating any eligible             
occupants displaced as a result of                  
implementation of the Plan; finding that there      
shall be available ten (10) year real estate tax    
abatement; and pledging cooperation of the          
Board of Aldermen and requesting various            
officials, departments, boards and agencies of      
 the city to cooperate and to exercise their       
 respective powers in a manner consistent with     
 the Plan.                                         
 Board Member Reed introduced by request:          
             Board Bill No. 72                     
        An     ordinance       approving        a  
 Redevelopment Plan for the 2919 Michigan          
 Avenue and 2919-21 S. Compton Avenue Area         
 ("Area") after finding that the Area is blighted  
 as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised       
 Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the      
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
 inclusive), containing a description of the       
 boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis  
 ("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
 herein as Exhibit "A", finding that               
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
 morals and general welfare of the people of       
 the City; approving the Plan dated February       
 25, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated      
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to       
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible  
 financial plan for the development of the Area    
 which affords maximum opportunity for             
 development of the Area by private enterprise;    
 finding that no property in the Area may be       
 acquired by the Land Clearance for                
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of            
 eminent domain; finding that the property         
 within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should   
 become occupied the Redeveloper shall be          
 responsible for relocating any eligible           
 occupants displaced as a result of                
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and      
 pledging cooperation of the Board of              
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,        
 departments, boards and agencies of the City      
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective     
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.      
 Board Member Flowers introduced by                
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 73                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
 Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
 consideration of the sum of Six Hundred           
 Thousand Dollars ($600,000.00) and other          
 good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim     
 Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim    
 unto The Board of Education of the City of        
 St. Louis a portion of certain City-owned         
 property within David Hickey Park located         
 in Out Lot 111, which portion contains 5.0        
 acres, more or less, and containing an            
 emergency clause.                                 
 Board Member Reed introduced by request:         
             Board Bill No. 74                    
       An ordinance designating a portion of      
 The Gate District as a Housing Conservation      
 District; said area being bounded by Chouteau    
 Ave., S. Jefferson Ave., Lafayette Ave.,         
 Nebraska Ave., Henrietta St., and S. Compton     
 Ave.; and containing an effective date.          
 Board Member Gregali introduced by               
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 75                    
       An ordinance amending Section Six of       
 Ordinance 64833 pertaining to members of         
 the Employees Retirement System of the City      
 of St. Louis; providing that a member who        
 has retired under the early or normal service    
 retirement provisions and again becomes an       
 employee of an employer shall have his           
 pension suspended until his termination of       
 employment; and further providing that the       
 suspension of such pension payments shall        
 apply to employees who are paid at hourly        
 rates or per performance rates whenever such     
 employees receive compensation from an           
 employer in excess of Twenty thousand            
 ($20,000.00) Dollars per year; and containing    
 an emergency clause.                             
 Board Member Young introduced by request:        
             Board Bill No. 76                    
      An ordinance recommended by the Board       
 of Public Service vacating a 33 foot wide        
 portion of air rights beginning B 57 feet above  
 St. Charles Street 43.06 feet east of 11th Street
 adjoining City Blocks 179 and 281 as             
 hereinafter described and authorizing            
 construction of a portion of a structure in the  
 vacated area under certain terms and             
 conditions.                                      
 Board Member Young introduced by request:        
             Board Bill No. 77                    
        An ordinance authorizing and directing    
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in         
 consideration of the sum of One Dollar ($1.00)   
 and other good and valuable consideration, a     
 Quit Claim Deed to remise, release and forever   
 quit-claim unto Chouteau Point Realty, L.L.C.,   
 certain City-owned property located in City      
 Block 860, and part of the wharf (but            
 containing no mooring rights), which property    
 is a strip of land adjoining 2 Rutger Street, and
 containing an emergency clause.                  
 Board Member Reed introduced by request:         
             Board Bill No. 78                    
      An      ordinance       approving      a    
 Redevelopment Plan for the 300 S. Jefferson      
 Avenue Area ("Area") after finding that the      
 Area is blighted as defined in Section 99.320    
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as     
amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300     
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description    
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of     
St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and           
incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding       
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the      
Area is in the interest of the public health,     
safety, morals and general welfare of the people  
of the City; approving the Plan dated             
March 25, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"),             
incorporated herein by attached Exhibit "B",      
pursuant to Section 99.430; finding that there    
is a feasible financial plan for the development  
of the Area which affords maximum                 
opportunity for development of the Area by        
private enterprise; finding that any property     
in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through the            
exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;          
finding that the property within the Area is      
unoccupied, but if it should become occupied      
the Redeveloper shall be responsible for          
relocating any eligible occupants displaced as    
a result of implementation of the Plan; finding   
that financial aid may be necessary to enable     
the Area to be redeveloped in accordance with     
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and      
pledging cooperation of the Board of              
Aldermen and requesting various officials,        
departments, boards and agencies of the City      
to cooperate and to exercise their respective     
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.      
Board Member Reed introduced by request:          
            Board Bill No. 79                     
       An       ordinance       approving      a  
Redevelopment Plan for the 2632 Virginia          
Avenue Area ("Area") after finding that the       
Area is blighted as defined in Section 99.320     
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as     
amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300     
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description    
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of     
St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and           
incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding       
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the      
Area is in the interest of the public health,     
safety, morals and general welfare of the people  
of the City; approving the Plan dated             
April 22, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"),             
incorporated herein by attached Exhibit "B",      
pursuant to Section 99.430; finding that there    
is a feasible financial plan for the development  
of the Area which affords maximum                 
opportunity for development of the Area by        
private enterprise; finding that no property      
in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through the            
exercise of eminent domain; finding that the      
 property within the Area is occupied and the      
 Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of   
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and      
 pledging cooperation of the Board of              
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,        
 departments, boards and agencies of the City      
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective     
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.      
 Board Member Reed introduced by request:          
             Board Bill No. 80                     
         An     ordinance      approving        a  
 Redevelopment Plan for the 2342 Hickory           
 Street Area ("Area") after finding that the Area  
 is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the   
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as            
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300     
 to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description    
 of the boundaries of said Area in the City of     
 St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and           
 incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding       
 that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the      
 Area is in the interest of the public health,     
 safety, morals and general welfare of the people  
 of the City; approving the Plan dated April       
 22, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated      
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to       
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible  
 financial plan for the development of the Area    
 which affords maximum opportunity for             
 development of the Area by private enterprise;    
 finding that no property in the Area may be       
 acquired by the Land Clearance for                
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of            
 eminent domain or otherwise; finding that the     
 property within the Area is unoccupied, but       
 if it should become occupied the Redeveloper      
 shall be responsible for relocating any eligible  
 occupants displaced as a result of                
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and      
 pledging cooperation of the Board of              
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,        
 departments, boards and agencies of the City      
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective     
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.      
 Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by           
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 81                     
       An ordinance establishing a four way        
 stop site for all traffic approaching the         
 intersection of 20th Street and East Madison      
 Street and containing an emergency clause.        
 Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by           
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 82                     
       An ordinance establishing a two way         
 stop site for all east-west traffic traveling on  
 Carr Street approaching the intersection of       
 18th Street and Carr Street and containing an     
 emergency clause.                                 
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by                
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 83                     
        An ordinance authorizing and directing     
 the Director of Streets to temporarily close,     
 barricade or otherwise impede the flow of         
 traffic on Enight Avenue by blocking said traffic 
 flow at the west curb line of Taylor Avenue,      
 and containing an emergency clause.               
 Board Member Roddy introduced by request:         
             Board Bill No. 84                     
       An ordinance recommended by the Board       
 of Public Service vacating a portion of air rights
 over 1) Children's Place B 13 feet x 60 feet      
 adjacent to City Block 4781 N and City Block      
 4781 S, 2) an irregular portion over Children's   
 Place west of Euclid Avenue adjacent to City      
 Block 3887 and 3) Euclid Avenue north of          
 Children's Place B 13 feet x 62 feet adjacent     
 to City Block 3887 and 4781 N as hereinafter      
 described and authorizing construction of a       
 portion of a structure in the vacated area under  
 certain terms and conditions.                     
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                         
        OF BOARD BILLS                             
 BB#1 -Ways & Means                                
 BB#68 -Ways & Means                               
 BB#73 -Ways & Means                               
 BB#77 - Ways & Means                              
 BB#69 - Public Safety                             
 BB#74 - Public Safety                             
 BB#70 - Neighborhood Development                  
 BB#71 - Neighborhood Development                  
 BB#72 - Neighborhood Development                  
 BB#78 - Neighborhood Development                  
 BB#80 - Neighborhood Development                  
 BB#75 - Public Employees                          
 BB#76 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse                 
 BB#81 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse                 
 BB#82 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse                 
 BB#83 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse                 
 BB#84 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse                 
 BB#79 - Housing, Urban Development and Zoning     
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                         
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                          
      None.                                        
            REPORT OF                              
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                         
      None.                                        
            BOARD BILLS                          
          FOR PERFECTION                         
     None.                                       
          THIRD READING                          
        CONSENT CALENDAR                         
     None.                                       
  THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
     AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
       OF BOARD BILLS                            
     None.                                       
         REPORT OF THE                           
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        
     None.                                       
     COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
       CONSENT CALENDAR                          
     Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced         
Resolution Nos. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 and    
the Clerk was instructed to read same.           
           Resolution No. 17                     
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
St. Louisan, Cory Spinks, recently won the       
IBF Welterweight Championship of the             
World; and                                       
    WHEREAS, Cory is the son of former           
Heavyweight Champion, Leon Spinks and the        
nephew of former Heavyweight Champion            
Michael Spinks; and                              
     WHEREAS, Cory is an outstanding             
graduate of the City of St. Louis Recreation     
Program and boasts an amateur record of 112-     
8; and                                           
     WHEREAS, during his amateur career,         
Cory won the St. Louis Golden                    
Championship four times and was the              
National PAL Champion in 1994 and 1997,          
as well as the National Golden Gloves            
Champion in 1997; and                            
     WHEREAS, since becoming a                   
professional boxer in 1997, Cory has won the     
IBA Jr. Welterweight Title, the NABO             
Welterweight Title and the USBA                  
Welterweight Title; and                          
     WHEREAS, as a professional boxer            
Cory has an extraordinary record of 32 wins      
and 2 losses;                                    
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the         
City of St. Louis, that we pause in our          
deliberations to recognize and congratulate      
Cory Spinks, IBF Welterweight Champion of        
the World and we direct the Clerk of this        
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution        
across the minutes of these proceedings and      
to prepare a commemorative copy for              
presentation to our honoree at a time and place  
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.               
 Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:          
 Honorable Daniel Kirner, Alderman 25th Ward         
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President            
 Honorable Peggy Ryan, Alderwoman 4 th Ward          
 Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7 th Ward       
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway, Alderman 8 th Ward     
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann, Alderman 9 th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer, Alderman 10th Ward        
 Honorable Matthew Villa, Alderman 11th Ward         
 Honorable Fred Heitert, Alderman 12th Ward          
 Honorable Alfred Wessels, Jr., Alderman 13thWard    
 Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward       
 Honorable Jennifer Florida, Alderwoman 15th Ward    
 Honorable Donna Baringer, Alderwoman 16th Ward      
 Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward      
 Honorable Colleen Sondermann, Alderwoman 23rd Ward  
 Honorable Tom Bauer, Alderman 24th Ward             
 Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward      
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward     
 Honorable Lyda Krewson, Alderwoman 28th Ward        
             Resolution No. 18                       
      WHEREAS, we pause in our                       
 deliberations to recognize and honor Captain        
 Antoinette (Toni) M. Filla on her outstanding       
 career as a member of the St. Louis                 
 Metropolitan Police Department; and                 
      WHEREAS, Captain Filla, who was                
 born and raised in St. Louis, began her             
 employment with the Police Department on            
 September 24, 1973 as a teleprocessing clerk;       
 and                                                 
        WHEREAS , Captain Filla received her         
 commission as a police officer on March 18,         
 1975 and enjoys the distinction of being the        
 first female officer in the City of St. Louis to    
 attain the ranks of Lieutenant and Captain;         
 and                                                 
      WHEREAS, Captain Filla has been the            
 recipient of eight Chief Letters of                 
 Commendation for outstanding profession-            
 alism and dedication to duty and has been           
 recognized by numerous community                    
 organizations and governmental entities             
 including the First District Business               
 Partnership, the Human Development                  
 Corporation of Metropolitan St. Louis, the          
 Office of the United States Attorney for the        
 Eastern District of Missouri, the United            
 States Secret Service and the Missouri              
 Coalition Against Domestic Violence; and            
       WHEREAS ,           Captain      Filla's      
 investigative skills, integrity and leadership      
 have earned her the respect and admiration of       
 her fellow officers and co-workers; and             
       WHEREAS, Captain Filla is an                  
 outstanding public servant who has dedicated        
 her professional life to the security and well      
 being of the citizens of the City of St. Louis;     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we recognize           
 Captain Antoinette (Toni) Filla for her           
 exceptional commitment and loyalty to St.         
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department and,         
 on behalf of the citizens of the City of St.      
 Louis, we thank her for her many years of         
 service to this community and we further          
 direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy   
 of this Resolution across the minutes of these    
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy to the end that it may be presented to       
 our honoree at a time and place deemed            
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
 Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:        
 Honorable Daniel Kirner, Alderman 25th Ward       
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President          
 Honorable Peggy Ryan, Alderwoman 4 th Ward        
 Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7 th Ward     
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway, Alderman 8 th Ward   
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann, Alderman 9 th Ward     
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer, Alderman 10th Ward      
 Honorable Matthew Villa, Alderman 11th Ward       
 Honorable Fred Heitert, Alderman 12th Ward        
 Honorable Alfred Wessels, Jr., Alderman 13thWard  
 Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward     
 Honorable Jennifer Florida, Alderwoman 15th Ward  
 Honorable Donna Baringer, Alderwoman 16th Ward    
 Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward    
 Honorable Colleen Sondermann, Alderwoman 23rd Ward
 Honorable Tom Bauer, Alderman 24th Ward           
 Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward    
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward   
 Honorable Lyda Krewson, Alderwoman 28th Ward      
            Resolution No. 19                      
      WHEREAS , we have been apprised that         
 Sister Debra Liesen, SSND, is celebrating         
 twenty-five years of service as a School Sister   
 of Notre Dame; and                                
       WHEREAS , Sister Debbie was born and        
 raised in Quincy, Illinois and is a distinguished 
 graduate of Quincy Notre Dame High School         
 and St. Louis University; and                     
        WHEREAS, Sister Debbie professed her       
 first vows at the School Sisters of Notre Dame    
 Motherhouse in St. Louis on January 7, 1978       
 and since that time has served the Church in      
 the field of education at various schools         
 throughout the St. Louis Metropolitan area;       
 and                                               
       WHEREAS , in addition to serving as a       
 classroom teacher and school counselor, Sister    
 Debbie has been the principal at De Porres        
 Consolidated School and St. Boniface District     
 School and she is currently serving in that       
 position at St. Margaret of Scotland School in    
 the Shaw Neighborhood; and                        
      WHEREAS , Sister Debbie is admired          
and respected by all who know her for her         
great love of the poor and her commitment to      
the education and development of young men        
and women; and                                    
      WHEREAS , Sister Debbie is an               
exceptional member of our community whose         
dedication to the education of our children is    
greatly appreciated;                              
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
deliberations to recognize and honor Sister       
Debra Liesen, SSND, on the occasion of her        
Twentieth-Fifth Anniversary as a School Sister    
of Notre Dame and we thank her for her            
outstanding service to our community and we       
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
of these proceedings and to prepare a             
commemorative copy to the end that it may         
be presented to our honoree at a time and         
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.          
Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:        
Honorable Stephen Conway, Alderman 8 th Ward      
           Resolution No. 20                      
      WHEREAS , we have been apprised that        
after more than 20 years of dedicated service     
to the City of St. Louis, Barbara Murphy will     
retire on April 30, 2003; and                     
      WHEREAS, Barbara was born and               
raised in Bonita, Louisiana and moved to the      
City of St. Louis as a young girl; and            
      WHEREAS , Barbara began her career          
as a public servant on February 1, 1983 with      
the St. Louis Agency on Training and              
Employment; and                                   
      WHEREAS , since 1988 Barbara has            
served as a Neighborhood Liaison Officer, a       
ConServ Officer and, since 1994, a                
Neighborhood Stabilization Officer and her        
vast experience in neighborhood development       
will be greatly missed; and                       
      WHEREAS, Barbara has tirelessly             
served the St. Louis community helping to         
instill renewed community spirit through          
successful community based development            
projects; and                                     
      WHEREAS, we are certain that Barbara        
is looking forward to a well deserved retirement  
with her husband, Charles; her sons, Darryl,      
Rickey and Marvin; her seven grandchildren        
and her many friends;                             
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
deliberations to congratulate Barbara Murphy      
for 20 years of service to the citizens of the    
 City of St. Louis and we wish her peace and        
 happiness in her retirement and we direct the      
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this       
 Resolution across the minutes of these             
 proceedings and to further prepare a               
 commemorative copy to the end that it may          
 be presented to our honoree at a time and          
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.           
 Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:         
 Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward     
            Resolution No. 21                       
      WHEREAS , we have been apprised that          
 on May 30, 2003, Joan Clark will retire as         
 secretary to the St. Louis City Board of           
 Aldermen; and                                      
      WHEREAS , Joan has been an invaluable         
 member of the Aldermanic staff for twenty          
 years and can bear witness to countless events     
 which are best left unrecorded and in many         
 cases completely forgotten; and                    
      WHEREAS , Joan has the distinction of         
 being the only secretary to attempt to fire an     
 alderman; and                                      
      WHEREAS , Joan, who never met an e-           
 mail she could not open, will always be            
 remembered for the ease with which she             
 adjusted to the ever changing technology of        
 computers, scanners and copiers; and               
       WHEREAS, because we consider Joan            
 an irreplaceable member of the staff, we have      
 decided to extend her employment with this         
 Board for an additional 180 days; and              
      WHEREAS, we are certain that Joan is          
 looking forward to a well deserved retirement      
 with her husband, Bill; her children; her          
 grandchildren and her many friends;                
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize Joan Clark on the       
 occasion of her retirement and we thank her        
 for twenty years of extraordinary service to       
 the Board of Aldermen and the citizens of the      
 City of St. Louis and we direct the Clerk of       
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution     
 across the minutes of these proceedings and        
 to prepare a commemorative copy for                
 presentation to our honoree at a time and place    
 deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.                 
 Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:         
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr., Alderman 3rd Ward   
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President           
 Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1 st Ward     
 Honorable Dionne Flowers, Alderwoman 2 nd Ward     
 Honorable Peggy Ryan, Alderwoman 4 th Ward         
 Honorable April Ford-Griffin, Alderwoman 5th Ward  
 Honorable Lewis Reed, Alderman 6th Ward            
 Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7 th Ward      
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway, Alderman 8th Ward    
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann, Alderman 9th Ward      
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer, Alderman 10th Ward      
 Honorable Matthew Villa, Alderman 11th Ward       
 Honorable Fred Heitert, Alderman 12th Ward        
 Honorable Alfred Wessels, Jr., Alderman 13thWard  
 Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward     
 Honorable Jennifer Florida, Alderwoman 15th Ward  
 Honorable Donna Baringer, Alderwoman 16th Ward    
 Honorable Joseph Roddy, Alderman 17th Ward        
 Honorable Terry Kennedy, Alderman 18th Ward       
 Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward    
 Honorable Craig Schmid, Alderman 20th Ward        
 Honorable Bennice Jones-King, Alderwoman 21st Ward
 Honorable Jeffrey Boyd, Alderman 22nd Ward        
 Honorable Colleen Sondermann, Alderwoman 23rd Ward
 Honorable Tom Bauer, Alderman 24th Ward           
 Honorable Daniel Kirner, Alderman 25th Ward       
 Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward    
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward   
 Honorable Lyda Krewson, Alderwoman 28th Ward      
            Resolution No. 22                      
       WHEREAS, Shaw Place, designed and           
 built by Henry Shaw and his architect George      
 I. Barnett, is the second oldest private street   
 in St. Louis and a notable example of late        
 Victorian English architecture; and               
      WHEREAS , Shaw Place was placed on           
 the National Register of Historic Places in       
 1982 and designated as a local historic district  
 in 1986 by the Heritage and Design                
 Commission; and                                   
      WHEREAS , Shaw Place exemplifies the         
 charm, diversity and uniqueness of city living;   
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, the residents of Shaw               
 Place, past and present, have contributed         
 greatly to the preservation and growth of the     
 City of St. Louis and the Shaw Neighborhood;      
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, on May 4, 2003, Chris and           
 Terry Adelman, Sharon and Kevin O'Neill,          
 Elena Andresen and Kevin Micklesen, Thomas        
 Dunn, Katge and Jeffrey Havlik, Veanne and        
 Melvin Kehr, Jeffrey Goldone and Phillip          
 Meier, Valerie and Nelson Coleman, Lyn and        
 Robert Nicolay, and Yvonne and Michael            
 Landt are celebrating the 125th anniversary       
 of Shaw Place;                                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize the residents of       
 Shaw Place, both past and present, and we         
 congratulate them on the occasion of the 125th    
 Anniversary of this historic street and we        
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
 of these proceedings and to prepare a             
 commemorative copy for presentation to our        
honorees at a time and place deemed            
appropriate by the Sponsor.                    
Introduced on the 2nd day of May, 2003 by:     
Honorable Stephen Conway, Alderman 8th Ward    
     Unanimous consent having been             
obtained Resolution Nos. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21    
and 22 stood considered.                       
      Mr. Shrewsbury moved that Resolution     
Nos. 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 be adopted, at  
this meeting of the Board.                     
     Seconded by Mr. Kirner                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
           FIRST READING                       
          OF RESOLUTIONS                       
     None.                                     
          SECOND READING                       
          OF RESOLUTIONS                       
     None.                                     
      MISCELLANEOUS AND                        
      UNFINISHED BUSINESS                      
     None.                                     
          ANNOUNCEMENTS                        
     None.                                     
        EXCUSED ALDERMEN                       
     Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the           
following aldermen due to their necessary      
absence: Ms. Jones-King.                       
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
             ADJOURNMENT                       
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under       
rules to return Friday, May 9, 2003.           
     Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
     Respectfully submitted,                   
     Karen L. Divis, Clerk                     
     Board of Aldermen                         
  BOARD OF                                     
PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
          Regular Meeting                      
     St. Louis, MO - May 6, 2003               
     Board met at 1:45 P.M.                    
     Present: Directors Suelmann, Siedhoff,    
Bess, Stallworth, Simon and President Hearst.  
     Absent: Directors Visintainer and         
Griggs. (excused)                              
       Requests of the Director of Public        
 Utilities designating Mr. James Kummer to       
 act in his behalf, and; Director of Airport to  
 be excused from the Regular Meeting of          
 May 6, 2003 designating Mr. Don Huber to        
 act in his behalf were received and leaves of   
 absence granted.                                
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of          
 April 29, 2003 were unanimously approved.       
      The following documents were referred      
 by the Secretary:                               
                May 2, 2003                      
      To the Director of Public Safety: 107651,  
 Cici's Pizza, operate arcade at 3562 Gustine,   
 9 machines.                                     
                May 6, 2003                      
       To the President and Directors of Public  
 Utilities and Streets: 107652, MSD, construct,  
 operate, repair, maintain and replace public    
 sewers located within Ivory Perry Park in       
 3865. 107653, The Westin Group, dedicate        
 alley in C.B. 4584. 107654, Union Electric      
 Co. d/b/a AmerenUE, install conduit and         
 marry into contractor installed conduit and     
 extend to existing manhole at Taylor. 107655,   
 Union Electric Co. d/b/a AmerenUE, set 35'      
 pole and string wire on n/side of alley e/S.    
 Compton and s/Hickory.                          
       To the Directors of Public Utilities and  
 Public Safety: 107656, Leader Investment Co.,   
 LLC, subdivide lots 57 and 58 in C.B. 5111 at   
 4470 and 4476 Chouteau; 107657, Walter          
 Allen & Ultima Contracting, consolidate part    
 of lots 99 and 100 in C.B. 3775-W; 107658,      
 Saaman Corp., subdivide parcels of land in      
 C.B. 4623-W at 6923 & 6926 Waldemar.            
      To the Directors of Streets and Public     
 Safety: 107659, Jaymes Dearing, encroach        
 with porch/steps/railing at 7801 S. Broadway;   
 107660, David Hart, encroach with wheelchair    
 ramp at 4561 S. Compton. 107661, National       
 Rent-A-Center, encroach with scissor lift at    
 3458 Union.                                     
      To the Directors of Health and Hospitals   
 and Public Safety: 107662, Land of Oz           
 Academy, conduct day care center at 1176 N.     
 Kingshighway; 107663, Family Resource           
 Center, conduct day care center at 3309 S.      
 Kingshighway; 107664, Karen's Kids              
 Daycare, conduct day care center 3622-22A       
 Michigan; 107665, Buttons and Bows,             
 conduct day care center at 2819 Union.          
      Communications, reports, recommend-        
 ations and documents were submitted by          
 Board Members and action thereon taken as       
 follows:                                        
                PRESIDENT                      
      Detailed plans and specifications for the
 following work approved and Board set date    
 of June 10, 2003 for opening bids for work    
 and Secretary instructed to insert the proper 
 advertisement therefore:                      
      Letting No. 8221 - 2003 Recoating of     
 Bag Claim Drive and Phase II of Ticketing,    
 Drive Expansion Joints, Main Terminal at      
 Lambert                                       
     Letting No. 8223 - Concrete and Brick     
 Removal/Replacement and Complete              
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP -57     
 (FY04 CIP)                                    
      Preliminary approval ordered given and   
 10 days granted in which to sign same:        
      Letting No. 8206 - Central Stores        
 Building at Lambert, Demein Construction      
 Co., 1165 Wilmer Road, Wentzville, MO         
 63385, Amount: $4,420,750                     
      Letting No. 8211 - Missouri Bottom       
 Road and Lindbergh North of Tunnel at         
 Lambert, James Cape & Sons Co., 6422 N.       
 HWY 31, Racine, WI 53402, Amount:             
 $16,188,917.61                                
      Addendum No. 2 to the plans and          
 specifications for Letting No. 8216 -         
 Construction of North Kingshighway Viaduct    
 over Terminal Railroad Package "B" approved   
 and made part of the original plans.          
      Addendum No. 2 to the plans and          
 specifications for Letting No. 8217 - Lambert 
 St. Louis International Airport Modifications 
 of Existing Airfield Electrical Distribution  
 System approved and made part of the original 
 plans.                                        
      Maintenance Agreement with MSD and       
 the City of St. Louis BPS for Storm Water     
 Sewers and Retention Basin (Coldwater North   
 Detention Basin, Coldwater South Detention    
 Basin and Cowmire Detention Basin) be         
 approved and President authorized to execute  
 same.                                         
     Board declared as emergency               
 Construction of the Kingshighway Viaduct,     
 Package "A" Improvements at Scullin School.   
 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                  
      Board declared as emergency repair of    
 chlorination equipment and appurtenances at   
 the Chain of Rocks and Howard Bend Water      
 Treatment Plant's Chlorine Buildings.         
       DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                     
       UTILITIES AND STREETS                   
       Application No. 107584, Union Electric  
 d/b/a AmerenUE, to knock a hole in manhole    
 and install 2 each 5" pvc conduits on n/w     
 corner of 19th, alley north of Olive, ordered 
approved, as follows, subject to certain         
conditions.                                      
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
 UTILITIES, PARKS, RECREATION                    
  AND FORESTRY AND HEALTH                        
        AND HOSPITALS                            
     Application No. 107622, Classic Visions     
Sports Promotions, hold event in Kiener          
Plaza, May 17, 2003, ordered approved,           
subject to certain conditions.                   
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
 UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
     2 subdivisions ordered approved, as         
follows, subject to certain conditions: 107623,  
Mr. and Mrs. Enoch Chambers, 1123 Howell;        
107495, Hopewell M.B. Church,                    
C.B. 3761-N                                      
      DIRECTOR OF STREETS                        
      Permits ordered approved as follows,       
subject to certain conditions: 107589-98, Grace  
United Church of Christ, hang 10 banners on      
light standards on Leona; 107637, Gypsy          
Caravan/St. Louis Symphony Volunteer             
Association/Famous Barr, hold event May 26,      
2003 closing Vandeventer from Forest Park        
to Lindell, Laclede from Grand to Spring and     
Spring to Vandeventer; 107638, Laclede's         
Landing Merchant's Association, hold event       
in conjunction with fair July 4-5, 2003 on       
Laclede's Landing.                               
       Affidavit of Rhema Baptist Assembly       
Church relating to compliance with Section       
10 of Ordinance 65205 which provides for         
the conditional vacation of public surface       
rights for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian    
travel on the western 304.21' of the 20' wide    
e/w alley in C.B. 2314 bounded by Mullanphy,     
22nd , Cass and 23rd approved and President      
authorized and directed to sign the Certificate  
on behalf of the Board and affidavit and         
certificate ordered returned to the Director to  
be filed for record on or before July 31, 2003.  
  DIRECTORS OF STREETS AND                       
    HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                         
      Application No. 107438, Holy Trinity       
Catholic School, hold event May 15, 2003 at      
1435 Mallinckrodt ordered approved, subject      
to certain conditions.                           
      DIRECTOR OF PARKS,                         
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                       
     All bids ordered rejected that were         
received on April 21, 2003 for Boathouse         
Concessions in Forest Park.                      
     Board Order No. 728 ordered waived          
and Board set the date of May 27, 2003 for       
opening bids for Boathouse Concessions in        
Forest Park, seconded by the Director of         
Streets.                                         
      Application No. 107666, Sunset              
 Fireworks, hold fireworks display in Forest      
 Park at the World's Fair Pavilion in Forest      
 Park for wedding reception May 9, 2003,          
 ordered approved, subject to certain             
 conditions.                                      
   DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                        
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                      
      5 day care centers ordered approved as      
 follows: 107274, Nursery Foundation, 1916        
 N. Euclid; 107634, Rock Me Gentle, 2520-         
 20A University; 107159, Hamilton Heights         
 Center, 5516 B Natural Bridge; 105973, Little    
 Wonder Learning Center, 5565 Greer; 107524,      
 Grace Hill Children's Center, 2708 N. 22nd .     
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                      
       Application No. 107651, Cici's Pizza,      
 to operate arcade at 3562 Gustine, 9 machines    
 ordered approved.                                
     The following documents were not listed      
 on the initial posted Agenda: 264061,            
 264067-69, 264071, 264074-77 and                 
 264079-83.                                       
     Adjourned to meet               Tuesday,     
 May 13, 2003 at 1:45 P.M.                        
                 Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.           
                 President                        
 ATTEST:                                          
                 Darlene A. Plump,                
                 Secretary                        
     REQUEST FOR                                  
  Boathouse Concession Operator                   
          in Forest Park                          
       The Board of Public Service is seeking     
 qualified bidders for the Operation of All       
 Concessions for the Boathouse on Post-           
 Dispatch Lake in Forest Park to Include Boat     
 Rental, Restaurant -Indoor Seating,              
 Restaurant - Outdoor Seating, Tented Area,       
 Full Service Kitchen and Service Area.           
 Information for Bidders, Rules and Regulations   
 governing the operation of the concessions       
 and draft Form of Contract will be available at  
 the Board of Public Service, Room 327 City       
 Hall, 1200 Market St., St. Louis, MO 63103       
 commencing May13, 2003 or may be obtained        
 on the BPS website www.stlbps.org, under         
 Contracts & Bids, Professional Services.         
      Sealed Bids will be received until1:30      
 p.m., St. Louis time, May 27, 2003. All          
 responses shall be addressed and delivered to:   
 Mr. Ronald A. Hearst, P.E., President, Board     
 of Public Service, Room 301 City Hall, 1200      
 Market St., St. Louis, MO 63103.                 
     The City of St. Louis is an Equal            
 Opportunity Employer, and Bidders shall          
 comply with Mayor's Executive Order #28.         
       The City of St. Louis reserves the right   
 to accept or reject any or all responses or to   
 cancel this concession bid in part or in its     
 entirety.                                        
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
 SEALED PROPOSALS will be received for            
 the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by the     
 Board of Public Service, Room 208 City Hall,     
 until 1:45 P.M., St. Louis, Missouri time on     
 June 10, 2003 at which time they will be         
 publicly opened and read, viz:                   
 JOB TITLE: Concrete and Brick                    
 Removal/Replacement and Complete                 
 Sidewalk Installation SP-57                      
 LETTING NO.: 8223                                
 DEPOSIT: $17,725.00                              
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of        
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the    
 President of the Board of Public Service,        
 Room 301 City Hall, (314) 622-3535.              
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and        
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving          
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of       
 TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) for each            
 set.                                             
      Purchased sets become the property of       
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will be    
 made.                                            
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208 City Hall.                              
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications,      
 and plans.                                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as    
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall     
 prevail.                                         
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or   
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
for the amount of Deposit required, as             
heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid   
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
all retained percentages, will be made within      
ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
final acceptance by the City.                      
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
insure that in any contract entered into           
pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
business enterprises will be afforded full         
opportunity to submit bids in response to          
this invitation and will not be discriminated      
against on the grounds of race, color or national  
origin in consideration for an award. The M/       
WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.           
      The Contract shall provide that not less     
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
City of St. Louis as determined by the             
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
of workmen needed in the actual construction       
work on the site of the construction job herein    
authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
be paid to all workmen.                            
     All labor to be performed under this          
contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
      The right of the Board of Public Service     
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
   By Order of the Board of Public Service,        
MAY 6, 2003.                                       
                 Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.            
                 President                         
ATTEST:                                            
                 Darlene A. Plump,                 
                 Secretary                         
            Office of the                          
       Board of Public Service                     
          City of St. Louis                        
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
the Board of Public Service, Room 208 City         
Hall, until 1:45 P.M., St. Louis, Missouri time    
on June 3, 2003 at which time they will be         
publicly opened and read, viz:                     
JOB TITLE:       O'Fallon Park Roadway             
Renovations                                        
Letting No.: 8222                                  
DEPOSIT: $21,050.00                                
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
 President of the Board of Public Service,          
 Room 301 City Hall, (314) 622-3535.                
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) for each set.               
       Purchased sets become the property of        
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will be      
 made.                                              
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
        All work under this contract will be paid   
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The          
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
       The Contract shall provide that not less     
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
 of workmen needed in the actual construction     
 work on the site of the construction job herein  
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
 be paid to all workmen.                          
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 APRIL 29, 2003.                                  
                  Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.          
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Darlene A. Plump,               
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at     
 the Office of the Board of Public Service,       
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.             
 June 3, 2003, St. Louis, Missouri time, at       
 which time they will be publicly opened and      
 read, viz:                                       
 LETTING NO. 8220: Residential Sound              
 Insulation Program, Part XXIII at LAMBERT        
 ST. LOUIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                  
 DEPOSIT: $4,600.00                               
      Plans, specifications and general           
 information may be obtained in the Office of     
 the Assistant Director of Airports for           
 Planning/Development, 13723 Riverport            
 Drive, Maryland Heights Missouri 63043,          
 from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday through          
 Friday and upon payment of fifty dollars         
 ($50.00) for each package. Purchased sets        
 become the property of the prospective bidder    
 and no refunds will be made. Information         
 concerning this project may be obtained by       
 telephoning (314) 551-5025.                      
   Proposals must be made on blank forms to       
 be furnished by the President of the Board of    
 Public Service, and must be submitted to Room    
 208, City Hall.                                  
     Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations 
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in             
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump    
Sum for which he will perform all of the            
estimated work, as requested by the general         
requirements and covenants, specifications          
and plans.                                          
  In case of a discrepancy between the gross        
sum shown in the proposal and that obtained         
by the addition of the bid prices as applied to     
be basic items, the latter shall prevail.           
     Each bid must be accompanied by a              
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or         
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,           
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,         
for the amount of deposit required, as              
heretofore stated.                                  
    All work under this contract will be paid       
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the      
work completed, less a retained amount of           
ten percent (10%). The City will make final         
payment, including all retained percentages,        
within ten (10) days after completion of all        
work and final acceptance.                          
      "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies        
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that  
in any contract entered into pursuant to this       
advertisement, minority business enterprises        
will be afforded full opportunity to submit         
bids in response to this invitation and will not    
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,    
color or national origin in consideration for an    
award."                                             
      The contract shall provide that not less      
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the     
City of St. Louis as determined by the              
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations        
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type     
of workmen needed in the actual construction        
work on the site of the construction job herein     
authorized, as well as the general prevailing       
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall      
be paid to all workmen.                             
     All labor to be performed under this           
contract shall be subject to the provisions of      
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the       
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.                 
      The right of the Board of Public Service      
to reject any or all bids are expressly reserved.   
  By order of the Board of Public Service,          
APRIL 22, 2003.                                     
                  Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.            
                  President                         
ATTEST:                                             
                  Darlene A. Plump,                 
                  Secretary                         
    PUBLIC NOTICE                               
       A public hearing will be held by the     
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on            
 Wednesday, May 14, 2003, in Room 208 City      
 Hall to consider the following:                
       APPEAL 8167 - Appeal filed by            
 Houston's Day Care, from the determination     
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of  
 an occupancy permit authorizing the            
 Appellant to operate a day care for ten        
 children at 3919 Sullivan. Ward 4              
 #AO268080-03                                   
       APPEAL 8181 - Appeal filed by            
 Martha Sanders, from the determination of      
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a   
 home occupancy waiver authorizing the          
 Appellant to operate a home day care for ten   
 children at 6070 Thekla Avenue. Ward 27        
 Home Occupancy Waiver                          
       APPEAL 8182 - Appeal filed by            
 Albertine Stimage, from the determination of   
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a   
 home occupancy waiver authorizing the          
 Appellant to operate a home day care for nine  
 children at 3449 California. Ward 20 Home      
 Occupancy Waiver                               
      APPEAL 8183 - Appeal filed by Dudic       
 Tires & Custom Wheels, from the                
 determination of the Building Commissioner     
 in the denial of an occupancy permit           
 authorizing the Appellant to operate a retail  
 sales and installation of tires and wheels     
 business at 6240 Gravois. Ward 13              
 #AO272819-03                                   
      In accordance with the provisions of      
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
     By authority of the Board of               
 Adjustment.                                    
      K. Duckworth, Chairman                    
    PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held    
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on          
 Thursday, May 22, 2003 on the following        
 conditional uses:                              
      1116 Bellerive Blvd      - Home           
 Occupancy Waiver - Rental Partnership          
 (Office Use Only) - "A" - Single Family        
 Dwelling District. Ward 11                     
      4111 S Compton - Home Occupancy           
 Waiver - Contractor (Office Use Only) - "B"    
 - Two Family Dwelling District. Ward 25        
     5104 Eichelberger - Home Occupancy         
 Waiver - Construction (Office Use Only) -      
 "A" - Single Family Dwelling District.         
 Ward 13                                        
     2010 Forest Avenue- Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Remodeling Contractor (Office Use      
 Only) - "A" - Single Family Dwelling District.  
 Ward 24                                         
      3963 Magnolia - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - Landscaping & Cleaning (Office Use     
 Only) - "D" - Multiple Family Dwelling          
 District. Ward 8                                
      5630 Park Lane Street - Home               
 Occupancy Waiver - Construction (Office         
 Use Only) - "A" - Single Family Dwelling        
 District. Ward 27                               
       4108 West Florissant - #AB271103-03       
 - Interior & Exterior Alteration Per Plans -    
 "G" - Local Commercial and Office District.     
 Ward 3                                          
 INVITATION TO BID                               
  Board of Police Commissioners                  
  Metropolitan Police Department                 
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
 Bid #304-000001         Scooters                
 Bid #260-000039         Radio and Television    
                         Advertising             
       Sealed bids for the above will be received
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department, Office of the Director of           
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.     
 local time, Friday, May 23, 2003 when they      
 will be opened publicly and announced.          
       Official bid forms on which bids must     
 be submitted may be obtained from the Office    
 of the Director of Purchasing by prospective    
 bidders upon request in person or by            
 telephone during regular business hours.        
       Contractor shall not discriminate in      
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,     
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against    
 any employee or applicant for employment        
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national  
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient       
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the        
 contract, and the Board of Police               
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan     
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover  
 any damages resulting from termination.         
       The Board of Police Commissioners         
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and 
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also      
 reserves the right to consider criteria other   
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.    
 Among other factors, the Board will consider    
 the location of the business, minority interest 
 in the business, prior performance and the bid  
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.   
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.           
      Bidders are hereby advised that the         
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and        
associated Regulations could apply to the         
service for which bids are being sought herein.   
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific     
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform     
work pursuant to a contract executed between      
the successful bidder and the City must be        
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage      
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of    
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,           
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.   
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage          
Acknowledgment            and     Acceptance      
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit      
this Declaration with the bid will result in      
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's       
failure to comply with the contract provisions    
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may          
result in termination of the contract and the     
imposition of additional penalties as set for in  
the Ordinance and Regulations.                    
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
are available upon request from Carol Grassi,     
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at             
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.            
     CAROL GRASSI                                 
     DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                       
     PHONE # 314-444-5608                         
 ADVERTISEMENT                                    
         FOR BIDS                                 
      The City of St. Louis, Dept. of Human       
Services, Office of Veteran Affairs is seeking    
bids for the Homeless Veterans Reintegration      
Project (HVRP). This employment placement         
program will be performed within the City of      
St. Louis during FY 2004. Bid packets may         
be picked up after 9:00 a.m., May 27, 2003 at     
the Office of Veteran Affairs, 7th Fl.,           
634 N Grand Blvd., Tel # (314) 612-5900.          
      A Pre-bid conference will be held at        
1:00 p.m., on June 2, 2003 at the John Cochran    
VA Medical Center at 915 N. Grand, Education      
Wing, Room #127.                                  
     All sealed bids must be received at the      
Office of Veterans Affairs not later than         
June 23, 2003 at 9:00 a.m.                        
     The City of St. Louis reserves the right     
to accept or reject any or all responses or to    
cancel this request in part or in its entirety.   
     You may contact the Office of Veterans       
Affairs at:                                       
     634 North Grand, Suite 723                   
     St. Louis, MO 63103                          
     Office Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.          
     (314) 612-5957 or Fax (314) 612-5929         
     BoundsM@stlouiscity.com (e-mail)             
          REQUEST                                  REQUEST FOR                               
          FOR BIDS                                  PROPOSALS                                
    ST. LOUIS PUBLIC LIBRARY                       ST. LOUIS PUBLIC LIBRARY                  
     SEALED BID NO. 03-00074                        PROPOSAL NO. 03-00073                    
      ELECTRICAL SERVICES                         SCANNING AND OCR SERVICES                  
      Bids will be received by the                   Proposals will be received by the       
 Purchasing Department, St. Louis Public        Purchasing Department, St. Louis Public      
 Library, 1301 Olive Street, St. Louis,         Library, 1301 Olive Street, St. Louis,       
 Missouri, 63103, until 4:00 p.m.,              Missouri, 63103, until 4:00 p.m.,            
 June 4, 2003.                                  June 3, 2003.                                
      A single copy of the bid documents may          A single copy of the proposal          
 be obtained during regular business hours at   documents may be obtained during regular     
 the above address, or by calling               business hours at the above address, or by   
 (314) 539-0312.                                calling (314) 539-0312.                      
      Don Gillum                                     Don Gillum                              
      Purchasing Manager                             Purchasing Manager                      
                           PUBLIC NOTICE                                                     
       The City of St. Louis, Department of Human Services, Veterans Affairs Office has a    
 limited number of Blue Star Services Banners available for families living in the City of   
 St. Louis who have loved ones serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, deployed in support of our  
 war against terrorism and the liberation of the people of Iraq.                             
       Popular during WWI and II, the Banner has made a comeback. Hung in the front window   
 of your home, the Banner says that someone in this family is serving in America's military, 
 fighting the Nation's war against terrorism.                                                
      Please fill out and return the request form below. Whether your loved one is serving in
 Afghanistan, Iraq, Germany or another distant State, honor their service by requesting your 
 Blue Star Service Banner today. For more information concerning this program and other      
 information regarding Military or Veterans benefits, please contact Mr. Michael Bounds at   
 (314) 612-5957.                                                                             
                               Please fill out and return to:                                
                           The Department of Human Services                                  
                               Office of Veterans Affairs                                    
                                634 N. Grand, 7th Floor                                      
                                 St. Louis, MO 63103                                         
                       BLUE STAR SERVICE BANNER                                              
     Name of Service Member                                                                  
     ______________________________________________________________________                  
     Branch of Service                                                                       
     ______________________________________________________________________                  
     Family Member/Relationship                                                              
     ______________________________________________________________________                  
     Address                                                                                 
     ______________________________________________________________________                  
     Telephone Number                                                                        
     ______________________________________________________________________                  
                   This program is for City of St. Louis residents only.                     
 DEPARTMENT ST. LOUIS LIVING                      
OF PERSONNEL WAGE ORDINANCE                       
    NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                        
     The Department of Personnel, Room            
100 City Hall, City of St. Louis, Missouri        
announces competitive Civil Service               
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal   
Service.                                          
The last date for filing an application for the   
following examination is MAY 16, 2003.            
WATER MAINTENANCE FOREMAN                         
               Prom. 8928                         
   (Promotional Examination Open To               
     Permanent City Employees Only)               
$32,526 to $48,828 (Annual Salary Range)          
The last date for filing an application for the   
following examination is MAY 23, 2003             
      PROGRAM SPECIALIST I                        
        (DEPARTMENT OF                            
        HUMAN SERVICES)                           
            Prom./O.C. 8933                       
$26,962 to $40,456 (Annual Salary Range)          
      Vacation, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
Security, and Employee Retirement System          
Benefit privileges are provided in addition to    
salary.                                           
      Application forms and further               
information concerning duties of positions,       
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative  
weights of examination components, and            
duration of eligible lists may be secured in the  
office of the Department of Personnel, Room       
100 City Hall. Applications can be submitted      
on the Internet. Visit the city web site          
(www.stlouiscity.com) and link to Jobs with       
the City of St. Louis.                            
                 William C. Duffe,                
                 Director                         
May 7, 2003                                       
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                             
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any             
individual or company who performs work           
within the City limits must obtain a Business     
License. This would also apply to businesses      
who employ sales or delivery personnel to         
come into the City. Contracts requiring work      
to be performed in the City will NOT be           
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                 
Please contact the License Collector,             
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,          
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may            
also refer to our on-line site at                 
www.stlouiscity.com.                              
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                        
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that      
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597        
 and associated Regulations apply to the           
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
 contract executed between the successful          
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
 adjusted during the term of the contract          
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
 to submit this Declaration with the bid           
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
 [proposal]. A successful bidder's                 
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
 provisions related to the Living Wage             
 Ordinance may result in termination of the        
 contract and the imposition of additional         
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
 Regulations.                                      
 Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations are       
 available upon request from Mr. Larry             
 Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or can be            
 accessed at http://www.st louiscity.com/living    
 wage.                                             
    SUPPLY                                         
 COMMISSIONER                                      
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,                
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,               
 May 13, 2003 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be            
 received by the undersigned to be opened at       
 the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items   
 listed below on the dates specified.              
         Notice to All Suppliers                   
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
 employment practices that are in accordance       
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis      
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated       
 there-under to the end that all Contractors       
 and suppliers of materials and services will      
 offer equal opportunity for employment and        
 job advancement to blacks and other minority      
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.        
        TUESDAY, MAY 20, 2003                  
       SURPLUS CELL PHONE                      
        HANDSETS FOR SALE                      
 per condemnation #S03-40.                     
        TUESDAY, JUNE 3, 2003                  
           PLANT MATERIAL                      
 for furnishing the Parks Division per         
 Req. #158, #159, #160, & #161.                
          CONTRACT FOR                         
       RECREATION SUPPLIES                     
 for a period of three (3) years from date of  
 award.                                        
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
