      The   City Journal              
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
        by City of St. Louis          
     Parrie L. May, Register          
       1206 Market Street             
       Room 118 City Hall             
    St. Louis, Missouri 63103         
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $26.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
    Periodicals postage paid at       
        St. Louis, Missouri           
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
        JOURNAL                    
         OF THE                    
  Board of                         
  Aldermen                         
      OF THE                       
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                 
       REGULAR                     
        SESSION                    
       2003-2004                   
 PRELIMINARY                       
  The following is a preliminary   
    draft of the minutes of the    
            meeting of             
      FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2003.        
 These minutes are unofficial and  
 subject to Aldermanic approval.   
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers, May 16, 2003.                     
     The roll was called and the following   
 Aldermen answered to their names: Smith,    
 Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-Griffin, Young, 
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,   
 Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, 
 Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King,      
 Boyd, Sondermann Bauer, Kirner,             
 Williamson, Carter and Mr. President        
 Shrewsbury. 27                              
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER FO THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
      None.                                  
           HONORED GUEST                     
      APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
      OF PREVIOUS MEETING                    
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for May 2, 2003.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
       Report of the Clerk of                
      the Board of Aldermen                  
      None.                                  
         Office of the Mayor                   
Room 200 City Hall                             
1200 Market Street                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
(314) 622-3201                                 
Fax (314) 622-4061                             
May 7, 2003                                    
Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
Room 230 City Hall                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
Dear Members of the Board:                     
     I have the pleasure to submit to your     
Honorable Board the following individual for   
appointment to the Soulard Special Taxing      
District:                                      
     The appointment of Ms. Cynthia            
Harrison, who resides at 718 Lami, 63104,      
and whose term will expire on December 31,     
2006, replacing Mr. Thomas Mitchell.           
     May I ask for your Honorable Board's      
favorable consideration of this appointment.   
     Sincerely,                                
     FRANCIS G. SLAY,                          
     Mayor                                     
     City of St. Louis                         
     Ms. Young moved to approve the            
appointment of Cynthia Harrison to the         
Soulard Special Taxing District.               
     Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
Room 200 City Hall                             
1200 Market Street                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
(314) 622-3201                                 
Fax (314) 622-4061                             
May 7, 2003                                    
Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
Room 230 City Hall                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
Dear Members of the Board:                     
     I have the pleasure to submit to your     
Honorable Board the following individual for   
appointment to the Metropolitan Park &         
Recreation District:                           
     Ms. Pauline V. Smith, who resides at      
4286 Holly Avenue, 63115, and who will         
represent the area general north of Delmar.    
Her term will expire on January 1, 2006.       
      May I have your favorable consideration  
of this appointment.                           
     Sincerely,                                
     FRANCIS G. SLAY,                          
     Mayor                                     
     City of St. Louis                         
     Mr. Roddy moved to approve the                
 appointment of Pauline V. Smith to the            
 Metropolitan Park and Recreation District.        
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid                       
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
     Petitions & Communications                    
      None.                                        
  BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
     -INFORMAL CALENDAR                            
      None.                                        
           BOARD BILLS FOR                         
            THIRD READING                          
        -INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                        
            RESOLUTIONS                            
        -INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                        
           FIRST READING OF                        
              BOARD BILLS                          
 Board Members Young and Flowers                   
 introduced by request:                            
            Board Bill No. 102                     
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment               
 authorizing and directing the Director of         
 Airports and the Comptroller of the City of       
 St. Louis (the "City") to enter into and execute  
 on behalf of the City the "First Amendment        
 To The Lambert-St. Louis International            
 Airport (the `Airport') Agency Agreement          
 (Advertising)" (hereinafter referred to as the    
 "First Amendment") to the Airport Agency          
 Agreement for Advertising (AL-290) between        
 the City and The Directory Graphics, L.L.C.,      
 a Missouri Limited Liability Company, dated       
 August 10, 1998, and authorized by City           
 Ordinance No. 64385, approved June 25,            
 1998 (the "Agreement"); the First                 
 Amendment to the Agreement, which is              
 attached hereto as ATTACHMENT "1" and             
 made a part hereof, was approved by the           
 City's Airport Commission, and its terms are      
 more fully described in Section One of this       
 Ordinance; providing that the provisions set      
 forth in this Ordinance shall be applicable       
 exclusively to the Agreement as amended by        
 the First Amendment; containing a                 
 severability clause; and containing an            
 emergency clause.                                 
 Board Member Schmid introduced by                 
 request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 103                     
        An     ordinance       approving        a  
 Redevelopment Plan for the 3323 Cherokee          
 Street Area ("Area") after finding that the Area  
 is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the   
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as            
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300   
 to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description  
 of the boundaries of said Area in the City of   
 St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and         
 incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding     
 that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the    
 Area is in the interest of the public health,   
 safety, morals and general welfare of the people
 of the City; approving the Plan dated April     
 22, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated    
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to     
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible
 financial plan for the development of the Area  
 which affords maximum opportunity for           
 development of the Area by private enterprise;  
 finding that no property in the Area may be     
 acquired by the Land Clearance for              
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.      
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of          
 eminent domain; finding that the property       
 within the Area is partially occupied and the   
 Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating 
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and    
 pledging cooperation of the Board of            
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,      
 departments, boards and agencies of the City    
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective   
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.    
 Board Member Vollmer introduced by              
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 104                   
       An      ordinance       approving        a
 Redevelopment Plan for the 1927 Marconi         
 Street Area ("Area") after finding that the Area
 is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the 
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as          
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300   
 to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description  
 of the boundaries of said Area in the City of   
 St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and         
 incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding     
 that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the    
 Area is in the interest of the public health,   
 safety, morals and general welfare of the people
 of the City; approving the Plan dated January   
 28, 2003 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated    
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to     
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible
 financial plan for the development of the Area  
 which affords maximum opportunity for           
 development of the Area by private enterprise;  
 finding that no property in the Area may be     
 acquired by the Land Clearance for              
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.      
 Louis ("LCRA") through the existence of         
 eminent domain; finding that the property       
 within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should 
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be           
responsible for relocating any eligible            
occupants displaced as a result of                 
implementation of the Plan; finding that           
financial aid may be necessary to enable the       
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with          
the Plan; finding that financial aid may be        
necessary to enable the Area to be redeveloped     
in accordance with the Plan; finding that there    
shall be available ten (10) year real estate tax   
abatement; and pledging cooperation of the         
Board of Aldermen and requesting various           
officials, departments, boards and agencies of     
the City to cooperate and to exercise their        
respective powers in a manner consistent with      
the Plan.                                          
Board Member Roddy introduced by request:          
           Board Bill No. 105                      
      An ordinance affirming that the              
Redevelopment Area approved by Ordinance           
65292, known as the Adams Park School and          
Adams Park Area ("Area") as described in           
Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated       
by reference, is a blighted area as defined in     
Section 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of          
Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the "Statute"         
being Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),        
affirming that redevelopment and                   
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of   
the public health, safety, morals and general      
welfare of the people of the City; approving       
the Amended Blighting Study and Plan dated         
June 26, 2001 for the Area ("Amended Plan"),       
incorporated herein by Exhibit "B", pursuant       
to Section 99.430; finding that any property       
in the Area may be acquired by the Land            
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the       
City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through the             
exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;           
finding that the property within the Area is       
currently partially occupied and the               
Redeveloper shall be responsible for providing     
relocation assistance pursuant to the Amended      
Plan to any eligible occupants displaced as a      
result of implementation of the Amended Plan;      
finding that financial aid may be necessary to     
enable the Area to be redeveloped in               
accordance with the Amended Plan; finding          
that there shall not be available any real estate  
tax abatement; and pledging cooperation of         
the St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")          
and requesting various officials, departments,     
boards and agencies of the City to cooperate       
and exercise their respective powers in a          
manner consistent with the Amended Plan.           
Mr. President Shrewsbury and Board                 
Member Conway introduced by request:               
           Board Bill No. 106                      
     An Ordinance pertaining to the                
Transportation Sales Tax imposed pursuant          
to Senate Bill 432 as adopted and approved         
 by the voters of St. Louis City on August 2,      
 1994, pursuant to Ordinance 63168; creating       
 the "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust          
 Fund" directing the Treasurer of the City of      
 St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant      
 to said sales tax into the City Public Transit    
 Sales Tax Trust Fund" appropriating NINE          
 MILLION, FIVE HUNDRED, FORTY-ONE                  
 THOUSAND DOLLARS ($9,541,000) from                
 the said sales tax for the period herein stated   
 to the Bi-State Development Agency for            
 certain purposes; providing for the payment       
 of such funds during the period July 1, 2003      
 through, June 30, 2004 ; further providing that   
 in no event shall the Comptroller draw            
 warrants on the Treasurer for an amount           
 greater than the amounts of the proceeds          
 deposited in the "City Public Transit Sales       
 Tax Trust Fund" during the period of July 1,      
 2003 through June 30, 2004 ; containing a         
 severability clause.                              
 Mr. President Shrewsbury and Board                
 Member Schmid introduced by request:              
            Board Bill No. 107                     
       An ordinance appropriating the sum of       
 NINETEEN MILLION, EIGHTY-TWO                      
 THOUSAND DOLLARS ($19,082,000), as                
 described and defined in Section 94.600           
 through 94.655, R.S. Mo. Supp. 1986 as            
 amended for the period herein stated, which       
 sum is hereby appropriated out of the             
 "Transportation Trust Fund" to the Bi-State       
 Development Agency for transportation             
 purposes; and further providing that the          
 appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State    
 Development Agency supplying the Board            
 of Estimate and Apportionment an annual           
 evaluation report; further providing that in no   
 event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on      
 the Treasurer for an amount greater than the      
 amount of proceeds deposited in the               
 "Transportation Trust Fund" during the            
 period from July 1, 2003 through June 30,         
 2004; providing for the appropriation to be       
 reduced if certain funds are used for other than  
 public transit purposes; further providing that   
 the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State    
 requiring the payment of prevailing wages and     
 benefits to employees of outside service          
 contractors; and containing a severability        
 clause.                                           
 Board Member Carter introduced by                 
 request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 108                     
      An Ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Director of Health and Hospitals, on behalf   
 of the City of St. Louis, to enter into and       
 execute a Grant Agreement with the Missouri       
 Foundation for Health for a grant to fund St.     
 Louis Healthy Hearts, appropriating said          
 funds and authorizing the Director of Health      
 and Hospitals on behalf of the City, upon       
 approval of the Board of Estimate and           
 Apportionment, to expend the funds by           
 entering into contracts or otherwise for grant  
 purpose and containing an emergency clause.     
 Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced by          
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 109                   
       An ordinance amending Ordinance           
 65104, approved on December 20, 2000,           
 authorizing and directing the Comptroller to    
 hold fees collected by the Director of Streets  
 as part of the Street Excavation Restoration    
 Program, for the purpose of properly sealing    
 the pavement joint of street excavations after  
 the excavation has been completed, in a         
 special account; providing that all funds       
 maintained in such special fund shall be used   
 for materials, equipment and labor required to  
 properly seal the pavement joint of such street 
 excavations; further providing that all interest
 earned by the funds in the special account      
 shall be retained in the account to be used     
 according to the provisions of this ordinance;  
 and containing an emergency clause.             
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by              
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 110                   
       An ordinance establishing a two way       
 stop site for all north-south traffic traveling 
 on Newstead Avenue approaching the              
 intersection of Newstead Avenue and Cook        
 Avenue, thereby creating a four-way stop site   
 and containing an emergency clause.             
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by              
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 111                   
       An ordinance establishing a two way       
 stop site for all north-south traffic traveling 
 on Newstead Avenue approaching the              
 intersection of Newstead Avenue and West        
 Belle Place, thereby creating a four-way stop   
 site and containing an emergency clause.        
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                       
        OF BOARD BILLS                           
 BB#102 - Transportation & Commerce              
 BB#103 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning    
 BB#105 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning    
 BB#104 - Neighborhood Development               
 BB#106 - Ways & Means                           
 BB#107 - Ways & Means                           
 BB#108 - Health & Human Services                
 BB#109 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse              
 BB#110 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse              
 BB#111 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse              
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                      
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                       
     Mr. Carter of the Committee on Health      
& Human Services submitted the following        
report which was read.                          
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
May 16, 2003.                                   
     To the President of the Board of           
Aldermen:                                       
      The Committee on Health & Human           
Services to whom was referred the following     
Board Bills, report that they have considered   
the same and recommend adoption.                
           Board Bill No. 64                    
      An ordinance pertaining to health care    
services, authorizing the Commissioner of       
Health of the City of St. Louis to provide to   
the general public tuberculosis testing and     
authorizing the Comptroller to establish a      
special purpose account where the funds from    
said testing shall be placed and used for the   
purchase of additional serum, administration,   
testing, treatment completion enablers and      
incentives for active tuberculosis cases and    
program supplies, and containing an             
emergency clause.                               
     Alderman Carter                            
     Chairman of the Committee                  
     Ms. Young of the Committee on              
Transportation & Commerce submitted the         
following report which was read.                
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
May 16, 2003.                                   
     To the President of the Board of           
Aldermen:                                       
     The Committee on Transportation &          
Commerce to whom was referred the               
following Board Bills, report that they have    
considered the same and recommend adoption.     
           Board Bill No. 26                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the            
Airport Commission and the Board of             
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing and      
directing the Director of Airports and the      
Comptroller of the City of St. Louis (the       
"City") to enter into and execute on behalf of  
the City the Lambert-St. Louis International    
Airport (the "Airport") "Bookstore and          
Business Center Restated and Amended            
Concession Agreement" (the "Restated and        
Amended Concession Agreement") to the           
Airport Concession Agreement (Specialty         
Retail- Book)(AL-105) between the City and      
The Bookmark, Inc., a corporation of the State  
of Missouri, dated September 14, 1992, and      
authorized by City Ordinance No. 62679          
approved July 27, 1992 and as amended by        
the "First Amendment" dated January 12,         
 1998 as authorized by City Ordinance No.           
 64222       approved         December         12,  
 1997(collectively the "Airport Concession          
 Agreement"); the Restated and Amended              
 Concession Agreement, which is attached            
 hereto as ATTACHMENT "1" and made a                
 part hereof, is a complete restatement and         
 second amendment to the Airport Concession         
 Agreement and its terms are more fully             
 described in Section One of this Ordinance;        
 authorizing the Director of Airports and the       
 Comptroller to enter into and execute on behalf    
 of the City and in the City's best interest the    
 Bill of Sale for the sale of certain personal      
 property and fixtures to the Concessionaire        
 as provided for in Article V, Section 511 of the   
 Restated and Amended Concession Agreement          
 and any attendant or related documents,            
 agreements, or instruments deemed necessary        
 to effectuate the terms set forth in the Restated  
 and Amended Concession Agreement or the            
 Bill of Sale and/or deemed necessary to            
 preserve and protect the City's interest;          
 providing that the provisions set forth in this    
 Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to       
 the Restated and Amended Concession                
 Agreement and the agreements, documents,           
 and instruments approved and/or authorized         
 by this Ordinance; and containing a                
 severability clause and an emergency clause.       
             Board Bill No. 27                      
       An Ordinance, recommended and                
 approved by the Board of Estimate and              
 Apportionment, authorizing and directing the       
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of        
 The City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter        
 into and execute on behalf of the City a Space     
 Permit NO. AL-109 (the "Permit") at Lambert-       
 St. Louis International Airport (the               
 "Airport") between the City and American           
 Airlines Federal Credit Union (the                 
 "Permittee"), granting to the Permittee,           
 subject to the terms, covenants, and conditions    
 of the Permit, certain rights and privileges in    
 connection with the occupancy and use of the       
 Space, which is defined and more fully             
 described in Section 1 of the Permit that was      
 approved by the City's Airport Commission          
 and the City's Board of Estimate and               
 Apportionment and is attached hereto as            
 ATTACHMENT "A" and is incorporated                 
 herein; and containing an emergency clause.        
             Board Bill No. 28                      
      An Ordinance recommended and                  
 approved by the Board of Estimate and              
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the        
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of        
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter        
 into and execute on behalf of the City the         
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the       
 "Airport") "Parking Facilities Operating           
 Agreement" (AL-126) between the City and           
 Central Parking System of St. Louis, Inc.; the  
 Parking Facilities Operating Agreement, which   
 was recommended and approved by the City's      
 Selection Committee for the Management and      
 Operation of the Parking Facilities at the      
 Airport and the Airport Commission, is          
 attached hereto as ATTACHMENT "1" and           
 is made a part hereof; containing a severability
 clause; and an emergency clause.                
      Alderwoman Young                           
      Chairman of the Committee                  
      Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways        
 & Means submitted the following report which    
 was read.                                       
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
 May 16, 2003.                                   
      To the President of the Board of           
 Aldermen:                                       
      The Committee on Ways & Means to           
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,    
 report that they have considered the same and   
 recommend adoption.                             
            Board Bill No. 85                    
       An ordinance pertaining to the purchase   
 of supplies, recommended by the Board of        
 Standardization, and authorizing the Supply     
 Commissioner, on behalf of the City of St.      
 Louis, to participate in cooperative or joint   
 purchasing with other governmental entities     
 for the purchase of supplies and to enter into  
 agreements, as necessary, with other            
 governmental entities and to execute other      
 documents as necessary for the joint or         
 cooperative purchase of supplies, and           
 containing a severability clause.               
      Alderman Conway                            
      Chairman of the Committee                  
       Mr. Carter moved to suspend the rules     
 for the purpose of moving Board Bill No. 64     
 to the Perfection Calendar.                     
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
      Carried by the following vote:             
      Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,        
 Ford-Griffin, Young, Conway, Ortmann,           
 Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Gregali,      
 Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,              
 McMillan, Schmid, Boyd, Sondermann,             
 Bauer, Kirner, Williamson, Carter and Mr.       
 President Shrewsbury. 26                        
      Noes:0                                     
      Present:0                                  
            REPORT OF                            
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                       
      None.                                      
            BOARD BILLS                        
          FOR PERFECTION                       
     Mr. Reed moved that Board Bill No. 10     
before the Board for perfection, be perfected  
as reported out of Committee with its          
recommendation "Do Pass".                      
     Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Ms. Baringer moved that Board Bill No.   
22 before the Board for perfection, be         
perfected as reported out of Committee with    
its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
     Seconded by Ms. Flowers.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Ms. Baringer moved that Board Bill No.   
23 before the Board for perfection, be         
perfected as reported out of Committee with    
its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
     Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
     Ms. Ryan moved that Board Bill No. 29     
before the Board for perfection, be perfected  
as reported out of Committee with its          
recommendation "Do Pass".                      
     Seconded by Ms. Flowers.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill No.     
48 before the Board for perfection, be         
perfected as reported out of Committee with    
its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                   
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill No.     
49 before the Board for perfection, be         
perfected as reported out of Committee with    
its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
     Seconded by Ortmann.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill No.     
68 before the Board for perfection, be         
perfected as reported out of Committee with    
its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
     Seconded by Schmid.                       
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
     Mr. Carter moved that Board Bill No.      
64 (Floor Substitute) before the Board for     
perfection, be perfected as reported out of    
Committee with its recommendation "Do          
Pass".                                         
     Seconded by Mr. Kirner                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
       Mr. Conway moved to suspend the rules       
 for the purpose of moving the following Board     
 Bills to the third reading calendar for final     
 passage: Board Bill Nos. 10, 22, 23, 29, 48,      
 49 and 68.                                        
      Seconded by Mr. Kirner.                      
      Carried by the following vote:               
       Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-          
 Griffin, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,         
 Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida,        
 Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan,               
 Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Sondermann,             
 Bauer, Kirner, Williamson, Carter and Mr.         
 President Shrewsbury. 26                          
      Noes:0                                       
      Present:0                                    
           THIRD READING                           
         CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and     
 final passage of Board Bill Nos. 10, 23, 29,      
 48, 49 and 68.                                    
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                     
      Carried by the following vote:               
       Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-          
 Griffin, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,         
 Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida,        
 Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan,               
 Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Sondermann,             
 Bauer, Kirner, Williamson, Carter and Mr.         
 President Shrewsbury. 26                          
      Noes:0                                       
      Present:0                                    
             Board Bill No. 10                     
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Board of Public Service and authorizing and       
 directing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis      
 and the Comptroller of the City of St. Louis      
 to enter into a "Perpetual Easement & License     
 Relating to Public Light Fixtures", in            
 substantially the form attached hereto as         
 Exhibit A.                                        
             Board Bill No. 23                     
       An ordinance to provide prior service       
 credit in the Employees Retirement System         
 of the City of St. Louis to the employees of      
 the City of St. Louis Mental Health Board of      
 Trustees, an administrative board organized       
 and existing under the general laws of the State  
 of Missouri, who elected to become members        
 of the Employees Retirement System of the         
 City of St. Louis, upon payment of the cost       
 of such prior service credit to the Employees     
 Retirement System.                                
             Board Bill No. 29                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
 Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in         
 consideration of the sum of One Thousand         
 Dollars ($1,000.00) and other good and           
 valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to     
 remise, release and forever quit-claim unto      
 NCC II, L.P., certain City-owned property        
 located in City Block 3643, which property       
 is known as 3934 Lincoln Avenue, and             
 containing an emergency clause.                  
 Board Bill No. 48                                
        An ordinance recommended by the Board     
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing        
 and directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance    
 Corporation (the "Corporation") to issue and     
 sell its Leasehold Revenue Refunding Bonds,      
 Series 2003 (the "Series 2003 Bonds") in an      
 aggregate principal amount of not to exceed      
 $25,000,000 in order to refund all or a portion  
 of outstanding Leasehold Revenue                 
 Improvement Bonds, Series 1994, (Civil           
 Courts Building Project) (the "Series 1994       
 Bonds"), issued by St. Louis Municipal           
 Finance Corporation II in the original aggregate 
 principal amount of $32,505,000 for the          
 general welfare, safety and benefit of the       
 citizens of the City of St. Louis, Missouri      
 (the "City"); authorizing the City to convey     
 an interest in the Property to the Corporation;  
 authorizing and directing the officers of the    
 Corporation to execute and deliver an            
 Indenture of Trust, a Lease Purchase             
 Agreement, the Base Lease (or supplements        
 to the foregoing documents executed in           
 connection with the issuance of the Series 1994  
 Bonds), a Deed of Trust, Security Agreement      
 and Assignment, if desirable, a Pledge           
 Agreement, if desirable, an Official Statement,  
 a Continuing Disclosure Agreement, a Bond        
 Purchase Agreement and, an Escrow                
 Agreement; authorizing the obtaining of credit   
 enhancement, if any, for the Series 2003 Bonds   
 from a Credit Provider (as defined below),       
 authorizing the payment of any obligations       
 due to a Credit Provider, if any, and authorizing
 the Comptroller and any other appropriate        
 City officials, if necessary, to execute any     
 Credit Agreement, as defined below;              
 authorizing participation of appropriate City    
 officials in preparing the Corporation's         
 preliminary Official Statement and final         
 Official Statement for the Series 2003 Bonds;    
 authorizing the acceptance of the terms of a     
 Bond Purchase Agreement for the Series 2003      
 Bonds and the taking of further actions with     
 respect thereto; and authorizing and directing   
 the taking of other actions and approval and     
 execution of other documents as necessary or     
 desirable to carry out and comply with the       
 intent hereof, and containing an emergency       
 clause.                                          
            Board Bill No. 49                            Noes:0                                                Board Bill No. 48                    
       An ordinance to provide for the                                                                 An ordinance recommended by the Board        
                                                      Present:0                                                                                     
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the                                                        of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing          
collection of tax payments levied by the City                Board Bill No. 22                   and directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance      
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General     An Ordinance recommended by the Civil Corporation (the "Corporation") to issue and            
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending       Service Commission pertaining to sell its Leasehold Revenue Refunding Bonds,                        
December 31, 2003, and remaining uncollected    compensation for employees called to active Series 2003 (the "Series 2003 Bonds") in an             
and other revenues remaining to be collected    military duty in response to the United States   aggregate principal amount of not to exceed        
and deposited in the General Revenue Fund       Senate and United States House of $25,000,000 in order to refund all or a portion                   
in the treasury of the City of St. Louis,       Representatives' joint Resolution dated of outstanding Leasehold Revenue                            
Missouri through the issuance by the City of    October 10, 2002 entitled "Authorization for Improvement Bonds, Series 1994, (Civil                 
St. Louis, Missouri of its tax and revenue      Use of Military Force Against Iraq", Courts Building Project) (the "Series 1994                     
anticipation notes, and the acquiring of credit amending Ordinance 64954, approved Bonds"), issued by St. Louis Municipal                           
enhancement if necessary in order to lower      June 16, 2000, by adding thereto a new           Finance Corporation II in the original aggregate   
the cost of such borrowing; prescribing the     subsection 19(d) pertaining to compensation principal amount of $32,505,000 for the                 
form and details of such notes; authorizing     to be paid to employees called to active general welfare, safety and benefit of the                 
and approving certain documents and other       military duty; with an emergency provision.      citizens of the City of St. Louis, Missouri        
actions; and containing an emergency clause.                                                     (the "City"); authorizing the City to convey       
                                                             REPORT OF THE                       an interest in the Property to the Corporation;    
             Board Bill No. 68                       ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        authorizing and directing the officers of the      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board           Board of Aldermen, Committee Report, Corporation to execute and deliver an                    
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing St. Louis, May 16, 2003.                               Indenture of Trust, a Lease Purchase               
and directing the City of St. Louis, Missouri                                                    Agreement, the Base Lease (or supplements          
and St. Louis Municipal Finance Corporation           To   the   President  of  the  Board    of                                                    
                                                                                                 to the foregoing documents executed in             
to enter into a sale/leaseback, lease/leaseback Aldermen:                                        connection with the issuance of the Series 1994    
or similar structured finance arrangement             The Committee on Engrossed & Bonds), a Deed of Trust, Security Agreement                      
acceptable to the parties authorized hereby Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the and Assignment, if desirable, a Pledge                          
relating to the Convention Center Property; following Board Bills report that they have Agreement, if desirable, an Official Statement,             
authorizing said Corporation, the Mayor, the considered the same and they are truly a Continuing Disclosure Agreement, a Bond                       
Comptroller and any other appropriate City engrossed.                                            Purchase Agreement and, an Escrow                  
officials to execute and deliver documents and                                                   Agreement; authorizing the obtaining of credit     
instruments related thereto; and authorizing                 Board Bill No. 10                                                                      
                                                                                                 enhancement, if any, for the Series 2003 Bonds     
and directing the taking of other actions and         An Ordinance recommended by the from a Credit Provider (as defined below),                    
the approval and execution of other Board of Public Service and authorizing and authorizing the payment of any obligations                          
documents as necessary or desirable to carry directing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis        due to a Credit Provider, if any, and authorizing  
out and comply with the intent hereof.          and the Comptroller of the City of St. Louis     the Comptroller and any other appropriate          
                                                to enter into a "Perpetual Easement & License City officials, if necessary, to execute any          
    THIRD READING, REPORT OF                    Relating to Public Light Fixtures", in                                                              
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE substantially the form attached hereto as Credit Agreement, as defined below;                                            
                                                                                                 authorizing participation of appropriate City      
         AND FINAL PASSAGE                      Exhibit A.                                       officials in preparing the Corporation's           
             OF BOARD BILLS                                                                      preliminary Official Statement and final           
                                                             Board Bill No. 23                                                                      
      Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,                                                       Official Statement for the Series 2003 Bonds;      
                                                      An   ordinance  to provide  prior service                                                     
St. Louis, May 16, 2003 .                                                                                                                           
                                                credit in the Employees Retirement System authorizing the acceptance of the terms of a              
      To the President of the Board of of the City of St. Louis to the employees of Bond Purchase Agreement for the Series 2003                     
Aldermen:                                       the City of St. Louis Mental Health Board of Bonds and the taking of further actions with           
                                                Trustees, an administrative board organized respect thereto; and authorizing and directing          
      The Committee on Engrossed &                                                                                                                  
                                                and existing under the general laws of the State the taking of other actions and approval and       
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the                                                                                                             
                                                of Missouri, who elected to become members execution of other documents as necessary or             
following Board Bills report that they have                                                                                                         
                                                of the Employees Retirement System of the desirable to carry out and comply with the                
considered the same and they are truly                                                                                                              
                                                City of St. Louis, upon payment of the cost intent hereof, and containing an emergency              
enrolled.                                                                                                                                           
                                                of such prior service credit to the Employees clause.                                               
       Ms. Baringer moved for third reading Retirement System.                                                Board Bill No. 49                     
and final passage of Board Bill No. 22.                                                                An ordinance to provide for the              
                                                               Board Bill No. 29                                                                    
     Seconded by Mr. Kirner.                             An ordinance authorizing and directing    borrowing of funds in anticipation of the        
                                                    the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.   collection of tax payments levied by the City    
     Carried by the following vote:                                                                of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
                                                    Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in                                                        
     Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,            consideration of the sum of One Thousand       Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending        
Ford-Griffin, Young, Conway, Ortmann,               Dollars ($1,000.00) and other good and         December 31, 2003, and remaining uncollected     
Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Gregali,          valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to   and other revenues remaining to be collected     
Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,                  remise, release and forever quit-claim unto    and deposited in the General Revenue Fund        
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,                 NCC II, L.P., certain City-owned property      in the treasury of the City of St. Louis,        
Sondermann, Bauer, Kirner, Williamson,              located in City Block 3643, which property     Missouri through the issuance by the City of     
Carter and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 27             is known as 3934 Lincoln Avenue, and           St. Louis, Missouri of its tax and revenue       
                                                    containing an emergency clause.                                                                 
anticipation notes, and the acquiring of credit  
enhancement if necessary in order to lower       
the cost of such borrowing; prescribing the      
form and details of such notes; authorizing      
and approving certain documents and other        
actions; and containing an emergency clause.     
           Board Bill No. 68                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing        
and directing the City of St. Louis, Missouri    
and St. Louis Municipal Finance Corporation      
to enter into a sale/leaseback, lease/leaseback  
or similar structured finance arrangement        
acceptable to the parties authorized hereby      
relating to the Convention Center Property;      
authorizing said Corporation, the Mayor, the     
Comptroller and any other appropriate City       
officials to execute and deliver documents and   
instruments related thereto; and authorizing     
and directing the taking of other actions and    
the approval and execution of other              
documents as necessary or desirable to carry     
out and comply with the intent hereof.           
           Board Bill No. 22                     
      An Ordinance recommended by the Civil      
Service Commission pertaining to                 
compensation for employees called to active      
military duty in response to the United States   
Senate and United States House of                
Representatives' joint Resolution dated          
October 10, 2002 entitled "Authorization for     
Use of Military Force Against Iraq",             
amending Ordinance 64954, approved June          
16, 2000, by adding thereto a new subsection     
19(d) pertaining to compensation to be paid      
to employees called to active military duty;     
with an emergency provision.                     
      Board Bills Numbered 10, 22, 23, 29,       
48, 49 and 68 were read and all other business   
being suspended, Mr. Shrewsbury, in the          
presence of the Board and in open session,       
affixed his signature in accordance with the     
provisions of the Charter.                       
     COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
       CONSENT CALENDAR                          
      Mr. Wessels introduced Resolution Nos.     
32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37 and the Clerk was      
instructed to read same.                         
           Resolution No. 32                     
     WHEREAS , the month of May is               
recognized in the State of Missouri and the      
City of St. Louis as "Foster Parent Month";      
and                                              
      WHEREAS , in conjunction with the          
Missouri Division of Families Services, foster   
parents provide a safe and stable surroundings   
for children whose natural parents and families  
are in crisis and seeking the help they need to  
reestablish a healthy home environment; and      
       WHEREAS , all children need and             
 deserve a warm home, nutritious meals, clean      
 clothes and someone to love and care for them;    
 and                                               
       WHEREAS , there are currently more          
 than 10,000 children living in foster care homes  
 in the State of Missouri, more than 1500 of       
 whom live in the City of St. Louis; and           
       WHEREAS , the generous and devoted          
 individuals and families who provide the safe     
 havens of the Missouri foster care system are     
 providing an extraordinary service to this city   
 and state which will be evident for years to      
 come as the foster children of today, who so      
 greatly benefit from this program, grow into      
 the community leaders of tomorrow;                
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations, as we begin Foster Parent          
 Month, to recognize and thank the foster          
 parents who serve the children of the City of     
 St. Louis and the State of Missouri and we        
 encourage families and individuals throughout     
 this community to support this important          
 effort to ensure the safety, health and well      
 being of our youth and we further direct the      
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this      
 Resolution across the minutes of these            
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy to the end that it may be presented to       
 our honorees at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
 Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:       
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President          
            Resolution No. 33                      
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
 Pierre Laclede Elementary School has been         
 honored by the Missouri Department of             
 Elementary and Secondary Education for its        
 outstanding student performance in the            
 Department's Gold Star program; and               
       WHEREAS , each year the Gold Star           
 program recognizes schools throughout the         
 State of Missouri which have demonstrated         
 high student achievement and a commitment         
 to excellence in education; and                   
      WHEREAS , this year Pierre Laclede           
 Elementary School is one of two schools in        
 the City of St. Louis receiving this prestigious  
 honor; and                                        
      WHEREAS , the exceptional young men          
 and women of Pierre Laclede Elementary            
 School had a ninety-five percent attendance       
 record this school year and more than fifty       
 percent of them scored above the State            
 averages on Statewide exams; and                  
      WHEREAS, the school's motto of             
 "Attendance, Achievement, Attitude" is a        
 formula for success which has been adopted      
 by both students and faculty at Pierre Laclede  
 and is a model for all schools throughout the   
 St. Louis area;                                 
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our     
 deliberations to recognize and congratulate the 
 faculty, students and parents of Pierre Laclede 
 Elementary School on their selection as one     
 of the top schools in the State of Missouri     
 and their commitment to an outstanding          
 academic program and we further direct the      
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this    
 Resolution across the minutes of these          
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative      
 copy for presentation to our honorees at a      
 time and place deemed appropriate by the        
 Sponsor.                                        
 Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:     
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd, Alderman 22nd Ward   
            Resolution No. 34                    
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that       
 after more than 39 years of dedicated service   
 to the City of St. Louis, Marian E. Wallace     
 will retire effective June 1, 2003; and         
       WHEREAS, Marian was born and raised       
 in the City of St. Louis, She began her         
 employment with the City of St. Louis August    
 2, 1964 at Homer C. Phillips Hospital as a      
 Clerk I, on April 20, 1980 Marian was           
 upgraded to a Typist Clerk I which she held     
 until her transfer to the Excise Division on    
 July 1, 1985. On August 14,1988 she was         
 upgraded to a Typist Clerk II, the position     
 that she held until her retirement; and         
      WHEREAS, for the last 18 years Marian      
 has played an important role in the Excise      
 Division and her presence will be greatly       
 missed; and                                     
       WHEREAS, despite her dedication to        
 her career, Marian found time to volunteer at   
 the community garden, St. James Center and      
 she attends St. James A.M.E. Church and she     
 is also an active member of the Order of Eastern
 Star Prince Hall Free and Accepted Mason of     
 Missouri and its jurisdiction; and              
       WHEREAS, we are certain that Marian       
 is looking forward to a well deserved retirement
 with her sister Gloria, other relatives and     
 friends;                                        
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED BY THE Board of Alderman of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to congratulate Marian E.         
 Wallace for 39 years of service to the City of  
 St. Louis Services and we wish her peace and    
happiness in her retirement and we direct the    
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this     
Resolution across the minutes of these           
proceedings and to further prepare a             
commemorative copy to the end that it may        
be presented to our honoree at a time and        
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.         
Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:      
                                        th       
Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7 Ward       
           Resolution No. 35                     
     WHEREAS , The St. Louis Board of            
Aldermen has a long standing tradition of        
supporting and honoring the members of the       
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department         
who show great courage while placing             
themselves at substantial risk; and              
      WHEREAS, on October 15, 2002, Police       
Officers Durand Brassfield and Sean Mallon       
participated with other Sixth District Officers  
in apprehending three individuals who were       
reputed gang members wanted for questioning      
in a shooting incident; and                      
      WHEREAS, Officers Brassfield and           
Mallon joined in a pursuit of the suspects and   
safely apprehended them in St. Louis County      
at which time a number of weapons were           
recovered; and                                   
     WHEREAS , it was later determined that      
these same individuals were suspects in a        
murder investigation; and                        
     WHEREAS , Officers Brassfield's and         
Mallon's response to a dangerous and possibly    
deadly situation shows that an officer           
entrusted with the duties, powers and            
responsibilities mandated by the St. Louis       
Police Department's guidelines places him in     
good stead with the citizens of St. Louis who    
look to our police officers to protect them      
and keep them out of harm's way;                 
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to recognize and commend Police    
Officers Durand Brassfield and Sean Mallon       
for their bravery, heroism and dedication to     
duty and we thank them, on behalf of the         
citizens of the City of St. Louis, for their     
service to this community and we direct the      
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this     
Resolution across the minutes of these           
proceedings and to further prepare a             
commemorative copy to the end that it may        
be presented to our honorees at a time and       
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.         
Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:      
Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward  
             Resolution No. 36                        
       WHEREAS , The St. Louis Board of               
 Aldermen has a long standing tradition of            
 supporting and honoring members of the St.           
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department who             
 show great courage while placing themselves          
 at substantial risk; and                             
      WHEREAS , in the spring and summer              
 of 2002, Police Officers Ryan Cousins and            
 Reginald Williams participated in an extensive       
 undercover investigation designed to identify        
 and apprehend drug dealers in the Eight and          
 Sixth Districts, and take action, as needed, to      
 prevent acts of violence related to drug activity;   
 and                                                  
       WHEREAS , as a result of their excellent       
 work, two major drug rings were identified           
 and, at great risk to the officers, two individuals  
 were taken into custody along with a                 
 significant amount of powder cocaine, crack          
 cocaine and weapons; and                             
       WHEREAS , Officers Cousins and                 
 Williams are outstanding members of the St.          
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department whose           
 exceptional investigative skills and untiring        
 determination in removing dangerous felons           
 from this community are greatly appreciated          
 by the members of this Board and the citizens        
 of this great city;                                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                 
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our           
 deliberations to recognize and commend Police        
 Officers Ryan Cousins and Reginald Williams          
 for their bravery, commitment and dedication         
 to duty and we thank them, on behalf of the          
 citizens of the City of St. Louis, for their         
 service to this community and we direct the          
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this         
 Resolution across the minutes of these               
 proceedings and to further prepare a                 
 commemorative copy to the end that it may            
 be presented to our honorees at a time and           
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.             
 Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:          
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward      
             Resolution No. 37                        
      WHEREAS , The St. Louis Board of                
 Aldermen has a long standing tradition of            
 supporting and honoring the members of the           
 St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department             
 who show great courage while placing                 
 themselves at substantial risk; and                  
       WHEREAS, on October 14, 2002, Police           
 Officer Christine Fernandez responded to a           
 report of an accident with injuries at the           
 intersection of Union Boulevard and Bircher          
 Boulevard; and                                       
      WHEREAS , while trying to question an        
 individual suspected of having been involved      
 in the accident, Officer Fernandez was shot       
 and wounded by the subject who thereafter         
 attempted to flee the scene; and                  
       WHEREAS , although bleeding and in a        
 great deal of pain, Officer Fernandez was able    
 to return fire and wounded the suspect who        
 was quickly apprehended by other officers at      
 the scene; and                                    
       WHEREAS , as a result of her quick          
 response to a dangerous and possibly deadly       
 situation. Officer Fernandez was recognized       
 and the Officer of the Year 2002 by the St.       
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department;             
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize and commend Police     
 Officer Christine Fernandez for her bravery,      
 heroism and dedication to duty and we thank       
 her, on behalf of the citizens of the City of St. 
 Louis, for her service to this community and      
 we direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a     
 copy of this Resolution across the minutes of     
 these proceedings and to further prepare a        
 commemorative copy to the end that it may         
 be presented to our honoree at a time and         
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.          
 Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:       
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward   
      Unanimous consent having been                
 obtained Resolution Nos. 32, 33, 34, 35, 36       
 and 37 stood considered.                          
      Mr. Wessels moved that Resolution Nos.       
 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37 be adopted, at this     
 meeting of the Board.                             
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                       
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
             FIRST READING                         
            OF RESOLUTIONS                         
      Mr. Bosley introduced Resolution             
 No. 31 and the Clerk was instructed to read       
 same.                                             
            Resolution No. 31                      
       WHEREAS, in recent days the Missouri        
 Senate and the House of Representatives have      
 both approved House Bill 349 which will           
 enable citizens in this State to carry a concealed
 weapon upon receiving a concealed firearm         
 license; and                                      
       WHEREAS, on April 6, 1999, a majority       
 of the citizens of the State of Missouri rejected 
 Proposition B which would have allowed for        
 the carrying of concealed weapons throughout      
 the State; and                                    
      WHEREAS, every day we are reminded           
by both the print and electronic media of the      
dangers associated with guns and the tragedies     
which can occur when guns are too readily          
available; and                                     
     WHEREAS, a study released in March            
1995, by criminologists at the University of       
Maryland who examined the effects of the           
weakening of carrying concealed weapons law        
in three states found that gun homicides           
increased by an average of 26 percent while        
homicides by other means did not increase;         
and                                                
     WHEREAS, a study released in the Fall         
of 1995, by Northwestern University School         
of Law asking Americans, both gun owners           
and non-gun owners, if they would feel more        
safe or less safe if more citizens in their        
communities acquire guns, found that a             
majority felt less safe; and                       
      WHEREAS, the pending legislation             
could result in thousands of people carrying       
hidden weapons which has the potential to          
greatly escalate "crimes of passion", such as      
those committed out of fear; and will pose a       
serious threat to the safety of the police         
officers who patrol the streets and highways       
in this City and State; and                        
      WHEREAS, we believe that the fear of         
crime, which is so prevalent in our community      
and in communities throughout this State, and      
which must be eliminated in order to improve       
the quality of life for our citizens, cannot be    
resolved by laws which introduce further           
violence into our society;                         
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis, acting out of concern for   
the safety and welfare of the citizens of this     
City and recognizing the great potential for       
the increase in violence in our community if       
concealed weapons are allowed in this State,       
we do hereby state our strong opposition to        
House Bill 349 and we urge Governor Holden         
to veto this legislation in the interest of the    
citizens of this city and state, and we direct     
the Clerk of this Board to forward a copy of       
this Resolution to the Speaker of the Missouri     
House of Representatives, the President of         
the Missouri Senate, and Governor Bob              
Holden.                                            
Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:        
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr. , Alderman 3rd Ward  
     Unanimous consent having been                 
obtained Resolution No. 31 stood considered.       
     Mr. Bosley moved that Resolution No.          
31 be adopted, at this meeting of the Board.       
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                      
      Carried the following vote:                 
      Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,         
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,          
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,    
 Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, Jones-         
 King, Boyd, Sondermann, Bauer, Kirner,           
 Williamson, Carter and Mr. President             
 Shrewsbury. 26                                   
      Noes:0                                      
      Present:0                                   
      Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.       
 38 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.    
            Resolution No. 38                     
       WHEREAS, during the last Aldermanic        
 Session, the Public Utilities Committee          
 convened a hearing to review the performance     
 of Charter Communications subsequent to the      
 renewal of the cable television franchise and    
 discuss the efforts to improve cable television  
 service in the City of St. Louis                 
      WHEREAS, this discussion included           
 specific customer service requirements and       
 improved minority participation in the           
 franchise operation; and                         
       WHEREAS, in addition, the Committee        
 requested certain information regarding          
 numerous system upgrades designed to             
 improve the availability and reception of cable  
 television in the City; and                      
       WHEREAS , Section Five of Ordinance        
 65433 requires Charter Communications to         
 submit to the City a construction plan which     
 consists of maps of the entire Franchise Area    
 and clearly delineates the sequence and          
 schedule of the System Upgrade six months        
 after the Franchise Effective Date; and          
       WHEREAS, it is within the purview of       
 the Board of Aldermen and the Public Utilities   
 Committee to continue to review the progress     
 of the Franchise Holder in implementing the      
 requirements of Ordinance 65433 and to           
 further inquire as to the effectiveness of the   
 customer service standards adopted in            
 Ordinance 65430;                                 
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we direct the Public  
 Utilities Committee to hold hearings for the     
 purpose of reviewing the implementation of       
 the ordinances related to the renewal of the     
 cable television franchise, including, but not   
 limited to the cable system upgrade, minority    
 participation and the effectiveness of the new   
 customer service standards, and thereafter file  
 a summary of the Committee's findings with       
 the full Board of Aldermen.                      
 Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2003 by:      
 Honorable Terry Kennedy, Alderman 18th Ward      
      Unanimous consent having been                
 obtained Resolution No. 38 stood considered.      
     Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution             
 No. 38 be adopted, at this meeting of the         
 Board.                                            
      Seconded by Mr. McMillan.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
            SECOND READING                         
            OF RESOLUTIONS                         
      None.                                        
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                          
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                        
      None.                                        
            ANNOUNCEMENTS                          
      None.                                        
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                          
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the              
 following aldermen due to their necessary         
 absence: Mr. Reed and Ms. Krewson.                
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                       
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
              ADJOURNMENT                          
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under           
 rules to return Friday, May 23, 2003.             
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
      Respectfully submitted,                      
      Karen L. Divis, Clerk                        
      Board of Aldermen                            
   BOARD OF                                        
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                    
           Regular Meeting                         
     St. Louis, MO - May 20, 2003                  
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                       
      Present: Directors Siedhoff, Bess,           
 Stallworth, Simon and President Hearst.           
      Absent: Directors Visintainer, Suelmann      
 and Griggs. (excused)                             
       Requests of the Director of Public          
 Utilities designating Mr. James Kummer to         
 act in his behalf; Director of Streets designating
 Mr. Steve Runde to act in his behalf; Director    
 of Airport to be excused from the Regular         
 Meeting of May 20, 2003 designating Mr.           
 Don Huber to act in his behalf were received      
 and leaves of absence granted.                    
     Minutes of the Regular Meeting of             
 May 13, 2003 were unanimously approved.           
     The following documents were referred      
by the Secretary:                               
              May 15, 2003                      
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and  
Streets: 107692, SCB (formerly Southwestern     
Bell), install communication system on Farlin   
and Shreve.                                     
      To the Directors of Health and Hospitals  
and Public Safety: 107693, Urban League d/b/    
a Martin Luther King Headstart, conduct day     
care center at 1437 Laurel. 107694, Stella      
Maris Child Center, conduct day care center     
at 5654 Delmar.                                 
              May 19, 2003                      
     To the Directors of Public Utilities and   
Public Safety: 107695, John C. Bersh &          
Associates, subdivide property at Lee and       
Grove in C.B. 2424.                             
     To the Directors of Streets and Public     
Safety 107696, Panera Bread Co., encroach       
with walls over property line at 116 N. 6th.    
                LETTINGS                        
      Two sealed proposals for the public       
work advertised under Letting No. 8217 -        
Lambert St. Louis International Airport         
Modifications of Existing Airfield Electrical   
Distribution System were received, publicly     
opened, read and referred to the President.     
     Communications, reports, recommend-        
ations and documents were submitted by          
Board Members and action thereon taken as       
follows:                                        
               PRESIDENT                        
     Preliminary approval ordered given and     
10 days granted in which to sign same:          
     Letting No. 8214 - Concrete                
Replacement Due to City of St. Louis Water      
Division, Maintenance and Construction          
2003-2004, Aulbach Contracting, Inc., 5356      
Southview Hills Court, St. Louis, MO 63128,     
Amount: $161,447.                               
     Proposed contract and bond ordered         
approved as follows:                            
     Letting No. 8206 - Central Stores          
Building, Package 2 at Lambert, Demien          
Construction Co., 1165 Wilmer Road, P.O.        
Box 338, Wentzville, MO 63385, Contract         
No. 19567                                       
     Letting No. 8211 - Missouri Bottom         
Road and Lindbergh North Tunnel at Lambert,     
James Cape and Sons Co., Contract No. 19568.    
      Addendum No. 2 to the plans and           
specifications for Letting No. 8215 -           
Construction of Pre-Engineered Metal            
Building at the Water Division's Pipeyard       
Maintenance Facility approved and made part     
of the original plans.                          
      Addendum No. 4 to the plans and             
 specifications for Letting No. 8216 -            
 Construction of North Kingshighway Viaduct       
 over Terminal Railroad Package "B" approved      
 and made part of the original plans.             
       1st Amendment for the Memorandum of        
 Agreement b/t the City of St. Louis and TWA      
 Airlines, LLC for Improvements to the Existing   
 Terminal Facilities at Lambert approved and      
 President authorized to execute same.            
       DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
       UTILITIES AND STREETS                      
       Application No. 107654, Union Electric     
 d/b/a AmerenUE, install conduit and marry        
 into contractor installed conduit and extend     
 to existing manhole on Taylor, 4500 Duncan       
 ordered approved, subject to certain             
 conditions.                                      
     DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                          
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY,                       
   HEALTH AND HOSPITALS AND                       
        PUBLIC SAFETY                             
      Application No. 107621, Soldier's           
 Memorial, Landmark Event Partners,               
 Sunshine Concerts, hold Ribfest in Poelker       
 Park May 22-25, 2003 ordered approved,           
 subject to certain conditions.                   
      DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
      6 subdivisions ordered approved as          
 follows, subject to certain conditions: 107171,  
 Lathan Bell, C.B. 4930, 4246-48 Botanical;       
 107562, Third Eye Investment, C.B. 3307;         
 107587, Northside Community GP-1, LLC,           
 C.B. 3643; 107585, Northside Community           
 GP-1, LLC, C.B. 3644-B; 107586, Northside        
 Community GP-1, LLC. C.B. 3644-B;                
 107544, Joe Pagano, resubdivide lots 5 in        
 Block 2 of Switzer Place in C.B. 1459-B at       
 3437-39 Crittenden;                              
        DIRECTOR OF STREETS                       
       Lease agreement b/t the City of St. Louis  
 and American River Transportation Co. and        
 Archer Daniels Midland Co., to extend their      
 lease to exercise their first 5 year option for  
 mooring on the Wharf ordered approved.           
      DIRECTORS OF STREETS,                       
      PARKS, RECREATION AND                       
          FORESTRY AND                            
      HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                        
      Application No. 106645, Aids                
 Foundation of St. Louis, hold event in Kiener    
 Plaza/Aloe Plaza May 31, 2003 ordered            
 approved, subject to certain conditions.         
      DIRECTORS OF STREETS                        
        AND PUBLIC SAFETY                         
     4 encroachment permits ordered               
 approved as follows, subject to certain          
 conditions: 107601, Maison Lofts, planter      
 boxes on window sills and onto sidewalk at     
 4901 Washington; 107661, National-Rent-A-      
 Center, use scissor lift at 3458 Union; 107659,
 Jaymes Dearing, porch, steps and railing at    
 7801 S. Broadway; 107660, David Hart,          
 wheelchair ramp at 4561 S. Compton             
      DIRECTOR OF PARKS,                        
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                      
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                     
       Application No. 107673, St. Louis        
 Dream Center, hold basketball tournament for   
 middle school children on June 14, 2003 in     
 Fairgrounds Park ordered approved, subject     
 to certain conditions.                         
       Application No. 107674, African          
 Heritage Association of St. Louis, hold St.    
 Louis African Arts Festival on May 23-26,      
 200 in Forest Park ordered approved, subject   
 to certain conditions.                         
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                       
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      5 day care centers and 1 nursing home     
 ordered approved as follows: 107645, New       
 Day Child Development Center, 6115-6123        
 West Florissant; 107643, Tiny Fingers          
 Learning Center, 6831 Manchester; 107572,      
 Magic Moments, 8784 R. N. Broadway;            
 107567, Mers/Missouri Goodwill Industries      
 Daycare Center, 1724 Locust, 1st floor;        
 107549, GSL Developmental Center, Inc.,        
 4401 Fair and 4155 Carter; 107555, Tenet-St.   
 Alexius Hospital, 3933 Broadway                
  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                     
      8 Conditional Use Permits ordered         
 approved, as submitted by the Hearing          
 Officer, per Board Order No. 766.              
      The following documents were not listed   
 on the posted Agenda: 264145-153, 264161       
 and 264167.                                    
     Adjourned to meet               Tuesday,   
 May 27, 2003 at 1:45 P.M.                      
                 Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.         
                 President                      
 ATTEST:                                        
                 Darlene A. Plump,              
                 Secretary                      
            Office of the                       
       Board of Public Service                  
          City of St. Louis                     
      Sealed Proposals will be received for the 
 Public Work hereinafter mentioned at the       
 Office of the Board of Public Service,         
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 p.m.,          
 June 24, 2003, St. Louis, Missouri time, at    
 which time whey will be publicly opened and    
 read, viz:                                     
Letting No. 8224: Lambert-St. Louis                
International Airport Expansion Program,           
Group No. 2 - Residential Asbestos                 
Abatement Services                                 
Deposit: $44,335.00                                
     The bid package will be available for         
purchase from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday       
through Friday commencing May 19, 2003,            
through INDOX Services, One Document               
Drive, St. Louis, MO 63114 (Phone: 314-810-        
5900) upon payment of $10.00 plus shipping,        
if required. Purchased sets become the             
property of the prospective bidder and no          
refunds will be made.                              
     A pre-bid conference will be held at          
9:00 a.m., May 28, 2003, at the Airport            
Program Management Office, Conference              
Room A, Riverport Lakes East, 13723                
Riverport Drive, Maryland Heights, MO              
63043.                                             
      Proposals must be made on blank forms        
to be furnished by the President of the Board      
of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
Room 208, City Hall.                               
      Each bidder shall specify in its proposal    
in figures, without interlineations, alternations  
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
show the products of the respective unit prices    
and estimated quantities. And show, in             
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Total  
Bid Amount for which he will perform all of        
the estimated work as requested by the general     
requirements and covenants and                     
specifications.                                    
      In case of a discrepancy between the         
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of each item, the latter  
shall prevail.                                     
     Each bid must be accompanied by a             
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
Trust Company in the City of St. Louis,            
payable to the order of the City Treasurer, or     
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller          
of the City of St. Louis for the amount of         
Deposit required, as heretofore stated.            
      All work under this contract will be paid    
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
5%. Final Payment, including all retained          
percentages, will be made within ten (10) days     
after completion of all work and final             
acceptance by the City.                            
     The City of St. Louis will affirmatively      
insure in any contract entered into pursuant       
to this advertisement, that fully certified        
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises will be         
afforded full opportunity to submit bids in        
response to this invitation and will not be        
 discriminated against on the grounds of race,     
 color or national origin in consideration for an  
 award. The Disadvantaged Business                 
 Enterprise goal for this project is 30%.          
       The contract shall provide that not less    
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
 City of St. Louis as determined by the            
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
 of workmen needed in the actual work on the       
 site herein authorized, as well as the general    
 prevailing rate for legal holiday and overtime    
 work shall be paid to all workmen.                
      All labor to be performed under this         
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
 Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
 Revised Statues of Missouri, 1986.                
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
    By order of the Board of Public Service,       
 MAY 13, 2003.                                     
                  Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.           
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Darlene A. Plump,                
                  Secretary                        
             Office of the                         
        Board of Public Service                    
           City of St. Louis                       
 SEALED PROPOSALS will be received for             
 the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by the      
 Board of Public Service, Room 208 City Hall,      
 until 1:45 P.M., St. Louis, Missouri time on      
 June 10, 2003 at which time they will be          
 publicly opened and read, viz:                    
 JOB TITLE: Concrete and Brick                     
 Removal/Replacement and Complete                  
 Sidewalk Installation SP-57                       
 LETTING NO.: 8223                                 
 DEPOSIT: $17,725.00                               
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of         
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the     
 President of the Board of Public Service,         
 Room 301 City Hall, (314) 622-3535.               
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and         
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving           
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of        
 TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) for each             
 set.                                              
       Purchased sets become the property of       
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will be     
 made.                                             
       Proposals must be made on blank forms       
 to be furnished by the President of the Board     
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to       
 Room 208 City Hall.                               
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications,      
 and plans.                                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as    
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall     
 prevail.                                         
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or   
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,       
 for the amount of Deposit required, as           
 heretofore stated.                               
       All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the   
 work completed, less a retained amount of        
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including      
 all retained percentages, will be made within    
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and   
 final acceptance by the City.                    
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively   
 insure that in any contract entered into         
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority         
 business enterprises will be afforded full       
 opportunity to submit bids in response to        
 this invitation and will not be discriminated    
 against on the grounds of race, color or national
 origin in consideration for an award. The M/     
 WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
       The Contract shall provide that not less   
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the  
 City of St. Louis as determined by the           
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
 of workmen needed in the actual construction     
 work on the site of the construction job herein  
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
 be paid to all workmen.                          
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 MAY 6, 2003.                                     
                Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.           
                President                        
ATTEST:                                          
                Darlene A. Plump,                
                Secretary                        
     PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A public hearing will be held by the       
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
Wednesday, May 28, 2003, in Room 208 City        
Hall to consider the following:                  
      APPEAL 8184 - Appeal filed by              
Maxine's Day Care, from the determination        
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
a home occupancy waiver authorizing the          
Appellant to operate a home day care for 10      
children at 5220A Paulian Place. Ward 26         
Home Occupancy Waiver                            
     APPEAL 8185 - Appeal filed by Ruthie        
Simmons, from the determination of the           
Building Commissioner in the denial of a home    
occupancy waiver authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a home day care for 10 children at    
8616 Oriole Ave. Ward 2 Home Occupancy           
Waiver                                           
      APPEAL 8186 - Appeal filed by              
Lawrence Fuse, Jr., from the determination of    
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a     
building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
build a garage and make a room addition at       
1944 Berra Ct. Ward 10 #AB272183-03              
      APPEAL 8187 - Appeal filed by Alma's       
Kids Home Day Care, from the determination       
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
a home occupancy waiver authorizing the          
Appellant to operate a home day care for 10      
children at 8545 Mora Lane. Ward 2 Home          
Occupancy Waiver                                 
     In accordance with the provisions of        
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
    By authority of the Board of                 
Adjustment.                                      
     E. Smoot, Chairman                          
     PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A public hearing will be held by the       
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
Wednesday, June 4, 2003, in Room 208 City        
Hall to consider the following:                  
      APPEAL 8169 - Appeal filed by J.           
Lawrence Wurm, Jr. , from the determination      
of the Board of Public Service in the denial of  
a subdivision plat authorizing the Appellant     
to subdivide lots A, B, and C of Forestwood      
Subdivision at 2029 Forest Ave. Ward 24          
BPS107326                                        
      APPEAL 8188 - Appeal filed by Virginia    
 Norah, from the determination of the Building  
 Commissioner in the denial of a home           
 occupancy waiver authorizing the Appellant     
 to operate a home day care for 10 children at  
 8536 Riverview. Ward 27 Home Occupancy         
 Waiver                                         
      APPEAL 8189 - Appeal filed by Sandra      
 Meyer, from the determination of the Building  
 Commissioner in the denial of a home           
 occupancy waiver authorizing the Appellant     
 to operate a home day care for 8 children at   
 4656 Idaho. Ward 25 Home Occupancy             
 Waiver                                         
       APPEAL 8190 - Appeal filed by            
 Josephine Trice, from the determination of     
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a   
 home occupancy waiver authorizing the          
 Appellant to operate a home day care for 10    
 children at 4922 Claxton. Ward 1 Home          
 Occupancy Waiver                               
      In accordance with the provisions of      
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
     By authority of the Board of               
 Adjustment.                                    
      E. Smoot, Chairman                        
    PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held    
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on          
 Thursday, June 5, 2003 on the following        
 conditional uses:                              
      1824 Cora - Home Occupancy Waiver         
 - Home Repair Contractor (Office Use Only)     
 - "C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District.     
 Ward 4                                         
     1221 Goodfellow - Home Occupancy           
 Waiver - Carpentry (Office Use Only) - "B" -   
 Two Family Dwelling District. Ward 26          
     4703 Michigan - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - Remodeling (Office Use Only) - "B"    
 - Two Family Dwelling District. Ward 25        
      5438 Sunshine Drive - Home                
 Occupancy Waiver - Lawn Care, General          
 Contracting - "A" - Single Family Dwelling     
 District. Ward 12                              
      3401 Winnebago - #AO273966-03 -           
 Convenience Store (No Liquor) - "F" -          
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Ward 20      
       1425 Hampton - #AB273358-03 -            
 Interior & Exterior Alterations Per Plans      
 (Zoning Only) - "F" - Neighborhood             
 Commercial District. Ward 24                   
     4249-57 Hunt - #AB260783-02 -              
 Construct a Parking Lot Per Plans (50 Stalls)  
 - "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District.       
 Ward 17                                         
      4374 Lindell - #AB273322-03 - Interior     
 Alterations Per Plans - "E" - Multiple Family   
 Dwelling District. Ward 17                      
     2868 Missouri - #AB273375-03 -              
 Zoning Only (Interior Alterations) - "F" -      
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Ward 9        
 INVITATION TO BID                               
  Board of Police Commissioners                  
  Metropolitan Police Department                 
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
 Bid #650-000071         Janitorial Supplies     
 Bid #650-000088         Office and Computer     
                         Supplies                
 Bid #650-000089         Printing Supplies       
 Bid #650-000092         New Badges/Repairs/     
                         Service Bars            
 Bid #650-000102         White Bond Paper        
 Bid #650-000103         Remanufactured          
                         Laser Cartridges        
 Bid #650-000104         Envelopes               
       Sealed bids for the above will be received
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department, Office of the Director of           
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.     
 local time, Friday, June 6, 2003 when they      
 will be opened publicly and announced.          
       Official bid forms on which bids must     
 be submitted may be obtained from the Office    
 of the Director of Purchasing by prospective    
 bidders upon request in person or by            
 telephone during regular business hours.        
       Contractor shall not discriminate in      
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,     
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against    
 any employee or applicant for employment        
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national  
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient       
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the        
 contract, and the Board of Police               
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan     
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover  
 any damages resulting from termination.         
       The Board of Police Commissioners         
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and 
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also      
 reserves the right to consider criteria other   
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.    
 Among other factors, the Board will consider    
 the location of the business, minority interest 
 in the business, prior performance and the bid  
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.     
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.             
      Bidders are hereby advised that the         
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and        
associated Regulations could apply to the         
service for which bids are being sought herein.   
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific     
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform     
work pursuant to a contract executed between      
the successful bidder and the City must be        
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage      
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of    
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,           
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.   
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage          
Acknowledgment            and     Acceptance      
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit      
this Declaration with the bid will result in      
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's       
failure to comply with the contract provisions    
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may          
result in termination of the contract and the     
imposition of additional penalties as set for in  
the Ordinance and Regulations.                    
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
are available upon request from Carol Grassi,     
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at             
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.            
     CAROL GRASSI                                 
     DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                       
     PHONE # 314-444-5608                         
          City of St. Louis                       
        AIRPORT AUTHORITY                         
          Lambert-St. Louis                       
        International Airport                     
    REQUEST FOR                                   
     PROPOSALS                                    
  for Weather Advisory Services                   
      The City of St. Louis Airport Authority     
is seeking proposals from qualified contractors   
to provide Weather Advisory Services at           
Lambert Airport.                                  
     The Request For Proposals (RFP) can          
be obtained at the Airport Contracts              
Administration Office, 13723 Riverport Dr.,       
3rd Floor, Monday through Friday between          
8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or by calling (314)      
551-5051. This Request For Proposals may          
be obtained by visiting our website at            
www.lambert-stlouis.com (click on "Other          
Services then "Doing Business").                  
     Proposals must be submitted by               
2:00 p.m. local time, Friday, June 27, 2003       
     Robert C. Salarano                           
     Contracts Administration Manager             
               ST. LOUIS LIVING                 
              NOTICE OF                         
  OPEN MEETING WAGE ORDINANCE                   
      THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT                     
           CORPORATION                          
      Notice is hereby given that the           
 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT CORP-                        
 ORATION OF METROPOLITAN ST.                    
 LOUIS WILL CONDUCT A MEETING AT                
 12:00 NOON, ON FRIDAY, MAY 30, 2003            
 AT 935 N. VANDEVENTER, ST. LOUIS,              
 MO                                             
      A tentative agenda of the meeting         
 includes:                                      
 1.   Roll Call of Members Present              
 2.   Review of Minutes of the March 28,        
      2003 and April 25, 2003 Meetings          
 3.   Correspondence                            
 4.   Reports                                   
      a) Chairman's Report                      
      b) Personnel Policy and Grievance         
         Committee Report                       
      c) Budget and Audit Committee Report      
      d) Executive Director's Report            
 5.   Old Business                              
 6.   New Business                              
      Representatives of the news media may     
 obtain copies of this notice by contacting:    
 Mrs. Ruth A. Smith                             
 929 North Spring Avenue                        
 St. Louis, MO 63108                            
 (314) 613-2200                                 
 NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                          
      CITY ORDINANCE requires that any          
 individual or company who performs work        
 within the City limits must obtain a Business  
 License. This would also apply to businesses   
 who employ sales or delivery personnel to      
 come into the City. Contracts requiring work   
 to be performed in the City will NOT be        
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.              
 Please contact the License Collector,          
 Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,       
 63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may         
 also refer to our on-line site at              
 www.stlouiscity.com.                           
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                      
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that    
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597      
 and associated Regulations apply to the         
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial    
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are    
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires    
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all     
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a      
 contract executed between the successful        
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]      
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable        
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached     
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are     
 adjusted during the term of the contract        
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates     
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder      
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living    
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance              
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure   
 to submit this Declaration with the bid         
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid  
 [proposal]. A successful bidder's               
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract   
 provisions related to the Living Wage           
 Ordinance may result in termination of the      
 contract and the imposition of additional       
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and     
 Regulations.                                    
 Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations are     
 available upon request from Mr. Larry           
 Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or can be          
 accessed at http://www.st louiscity.com/living  
 wage.                                           
    SUPPLY                                       
 COMMISSIONER                                    
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,              
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,             
 May 27, 2003 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be          
 received by the undersigned to be opened at     
 the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items 
 listed below on the dates specified.            
         Notice to All Suppliers                 
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
 employment practices that are in accordance     
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
 there-under to the end that all Contractors     
 and suppliers of materials and services will    
 offer equal opportunity for employment and      
 job advancement to blacks and other minority    
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
      TUESDAY, JUNE 17, 2003                  
     ALKYD THERMOPLASTIC                      
for furnishing the Street Department per      
Req. #236.                                    
            CUTTING TOOL                      
for furnishing the Street Department per      
Req. #238.                                    
       SQUARE EDGE SOUND                      
          OAK LUMBER                          
for furnishing the Water Division per         
Req. #1308.                                   
      Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
30 days following the date of bid opening.    
If you desire bid results, please include a   
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
     The City of St. Louis desires to         
purchase recycled products whenever           
possible, especially items containing post    
consumer waste materials. If your company     
can supply recycled products, please provide  
information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is 
reserved.                                     
                Freddie L. Dunlap             
                Supply Commissioner           
                (314) 622-4580                
                www.stlouis.missouri.org      
