       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
        Published Weekly              
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
       by City of St. Louis           
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2005-2006                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
     Friday, May 13, 2005.        
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers, May 13, 2005.                     
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,   
 Flowers, Bosley, Reed, Young, Conway,       
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels,  
 Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,          
 McMillan, Schmid, Boyd, Hanrahan, Bauer,    
 Kirner, Williamson, Carter and Mr. President
 Shrewsbury. 24                              
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
           HONORED GUEST                     
      None.                                  
      APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
      OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for April 18, 19 and 29, 2005.      
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      None.                                  
          Office of the Mayor                
      None.                                  
    Petitions & Communications                    
          None.                                   
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                        
   - INFORMAL CALENDAR                            
     None.                                        
         BOARD BILLS FOR                          
          THIRD READING                           
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
     None.                                        
           RESOLUTIONS                            
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
     None.                                        
          FIRST READING OF                        
             BOARD BILLS                          
Board Member Bosley introduced by                 
request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 76                     
      An ordinance recommended by the             
Parking Commission making appropriation for       
payment of the operating expenses, capital        
equipment and improvement expenses,               
including lease purchase agreements involving     
Parking Division assets, and debt service         
expenses of the Parking Division of the           
Treasurer's Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,      
Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking         
Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility, and    
the Central Downtown Parking Facility for         
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005 and        
ending June 30, 2006, amounting in the            
aggregate to the sum of Twelve Million, Three     
Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand, Six Hundred         
Sixty Six Dollars ($12,367,666) and containing    
an emergency clause.                              
Board Member Wessels introduced by                
request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 77                     
      An ordinance, recommended and               
approved by the Board of Estimate and             
Apportionment and the Board of Public Service     
of the City of St. Louis (the "Board of Public    
Service"), authorizing and directing the Mayor    
on behalf of the City of St. Louis, to apply      
for and enter into an execute an Agreement        
with the U.S. Department of Housing and           
Urban Development for a grant to fund the         
removal and replacement of concrete               
sidewalks, sod and tree planting, and             
installation of precast concrete tree grates on   
the west side of Gravois Avenue between           
Gertrude and Eichelberger Streets; establishing   
a public works and improvement project for        
the design and construction of streetscape        
enhancements, including but not limited to the    
installation of concrete sidewalks, sod and tree  
planting, and precast concrete tree grates on     
the west side of Gravois Avenue between           
Gertrude and Eichelberger Streets; (the           
 "Gravois Avenue Streetscape Improvements           
 Project") and authorizing and directing the        
 City of St. Louis (the "City") through its Board   
 of Public Service to let contracts and provide     
 for the design, construction, materials, and       
 equipment, for the Gravois Avenue Streetscape      
 Improvements Project, authorizing the Board        
 of Public Service to employ labor and              
 consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,         
 acquire real property interests for the Gravois    
 Avenue Streetscape Improvements Project, to        
 enter into supplemental agreements with other      
 governmental and private agencies, and to          
 otherwise provide for the design and               
 construction of the streetscape enhancements       
 for the Gravois Avenue Streetscape                 
 Improvements Project all in accordance with        
 the grant entered into for said Project; with      
 any contract containing sections for:              
 description of the work, material guarantees,      
 estimated expenditure allocations, fund            
 reversion authorization, applicable federal and    
 state wage rate requirements, equal                
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's               
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising         
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for     
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with     
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and      
 approved by the Board of Public Service before     
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all   
 construction contracts let by authority of this    
 Ordinance provide for state prevailing wages       
 requirements including prevailing wage holiday     
 and overtime pay and compliance with all           
 applicable statutes of the State of Missouri,      
 the City Charter and the Revised Code of the       
 City, 1994, as amended; requiring all              
 specifications approved by the Board of            
 Public Service and contracts let by authority      
 of this Ordinance provide for compliance with      
 the Mayor's Executive Orders on Equal              
 Opportunity and maximum MBE/WBE/DBE                
 utilization goals, except when superseded or       
 prohibited by federal or state law or regulation;  
 requiring all advertisements for bids pursuant     
 to this Ordinance be subject to the provisions     
 of Section 8.250 RSMo., as amended; and            
 appropriating the total estimated cost of          
 Seventy Four Thousand Five Hundred Fifty           
 Eight Dollars ($74,558) for said Project from      
 the grant entered into pursuant to this            
 Ordinance; authorizing and directing the           
 Comptroller of the City to draw warrants from      
 time to time and disburse funds appropriated       
 by this ordinance and to disburse grant funds      
 in accordance with the Grant and upon              
 certification of vouchers by the President of      
 the Board of Public Service; authorizing the       
 Board of Public Service to accept on behalf of     
 the City monetary donations from other             
 governmental agencies and others to assist in      
 paying for the work authorized by this             
 Ordinance; and containing an emergency             
 clause.                                            
 Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced by          
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 78                   
      An ordinance pertaining to motor           
 vehicles; prohibiting any person who is         
 responsible for a child ten (10) years of age or
 younger from leaving such child in a motor      
 vehicle without being supervised in the motor   
 vehicle by a person who is at least fourteen    
 (14) years of age; containing definitions and   
 an emergency clause.                            
 Board Member Williamson introduced by           
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 79                   
      An ordinance amending Section One of       
 Ordinance 66599 pertaining to the closing of    
 Raymond Avenue by moving the location of        
 the closing to the east curbline of the         
 Hodiamont Right of Way and containing an        
 emergency clause.                               
 Board Member Williamson introduced by           
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 80                   
        An ordinance authorizing and directing   
 the Director of Streets to temporarily close,   
 barricade or otherwise impede the flow of       
 traffic on Etzel Avenue by blocking said traffic
 flow at the west curb line of Blackstone        
 Avenue and containing an emergency clause.      
 Board Member Schmid introduced by               
 request:                                        
       An ordinance repealing Ordinance 50038    
 and enacting a new ordinance pertaining to      
 prohibiting installing, possessing or operating 
 in any motor vehicle in the City of St. Louis   
 any device for the producing or reproducing     
 of sound at any time with louder volume than    
 is necessary for convenient, normal hearing     
 for the persons who are in the vehicle in which 
 the device is being operated and who are        
 voluntary listeners: further prohibiting the    
 operating of any device for the producing or    
 reproducing of sound at any time with louder    
 volume than is necessary for convenient,        
 normal hearing for the persons who are in the   
 room in which the device is being operated      
 and who are voluntary listeners; containing     
 penalty provisions, including fines; seizure    
 and impoundment of vehicles for evidence;       
 and containing an emergency clause.             
 Board Member Schmid introduced by               
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 82                   
      An ordinance repealing ordinance 63787     
 and enacting in lieu thereof a new ordinance    
 pertaining to motor vehicles used to assist or  
 to facilitate a violation of certain city       
 ordinances, and permitting the motor vehicle    
to be impounded and held for evidence until          
released by the warrant office; and containing       
an emergency clause.                                 
Board Member Young introduced by request:            
            Board Bill No. 83                        
      An Ordinance, recommended and                  
approved by the Airport Commission and the           
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,                 
ratifying and adopting the actions of the            
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.         
Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the      
"Airport"), in accepting and executing on            
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement         
offered by the United States of America (the         
"Grant Agreement"), acting through the               
Federal Aviation Administration of the United        
States Department of Transportation, the             
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-          
29-0085-88-2005, dated April 15, 2005, for a         
maximum federal obligation of Three Hundred          
Eighty Six Thousand Six Hundred Eighty               
Seven Dollars ($ 386,687.00), which is filed         
in the Office of the City Register [Comptroller      
Document No. 50532], for the reimbursement           
of direct costs associated with acquiring an         
aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle (Class1);  
and containing an emergency clause.                  
Board Member Young introduced by request:            
            Board Bill No. 84                        
      An Ordinance, recommended and                  
approved by the Airport Commission and the           
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,                 
ratifying and adopting the actions of the            
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.         
Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the      
"Airport"), in accepting and executing on            
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement         
offered by the United States of America (the         
"Grant Agreement"), acting through the               
Federal Aviation Administration of the United        
States Department of Transportation, the             
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-          
29-0085-92-2005, dated March 24, 2005, for           
a maximum federal obligation of Nineteen             
Million Nine Hundred Nine Thousand Six               
Hundred Dollars ($19,909,600), which is filed        
in the Office of the City Register [Comptroller      
Document No. 50402], for the reimbursement           
of direct costs for land acquired in fee for W-      
1W noise mitigation within 70-74 DNL (Phase          
2); and containing an emergency clause.              
Board Member Young introduced by request:            
            Board Bill No. 85                        
      An Ordinance, recommended and                  
approved by the Airport Commission and the           
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,                 
ratifying and adopting the actions of the            
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.         
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of    
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the  
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on        
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement     
 offered by the United States of America (the     
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the           
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United    
 States Department of Transportation, the         
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-      
 29-0085-93-2005, dated March 23, 2005, for       
 a maximum federal obligation of Four Million     
 Seven Hundred Ninety Thousand Four               
 Hundred Dollars ($4,790,400), which is filed     
 in the Office of the City Register [Comptroller  
 Document No. 50403], for the reimbursement       
 of direct costs associated with the noise        
 mitigation acoustical program for residences     
 within 65-69 DNL (Phase 5); and containing       
 an emergency clause.                             
 Board Member Bosley introduced by                
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 86                     
       An ordinance authorizing and directing     
 the Director of Streets to temporarily close,    
 barricade or otherwise impede the flow of        
 traffic on various streets within the Third      
 Ward, and containing an emergency clause.        
 Board Member Bauer introduced by request:        
            Board Bill No. 87                     
      An ordinance pertaining to the Twenty-      
 Fourth Ward Liquor Control District;             
 amending Section Two of Ordinance 66597          
 by changing the boundaries of the Twenty-        
 Fourth Ward Liquor Control District, as          
 established therein.                             
 Board Member Reed introduced by request:         
            Board Bill No. 88                     
       An ordinance amending Ordinance No.        
 66494 adopted by the Board of Aldermen on        
 November 19, 2004; authorizing the execution     
 of an amendment to Redevelopment                 
 Agreement by and between the City and Alder      
 Lofts, LLC; prescribing the form and details     
 of said amendment; making certain findings       
 with respect thereto; authorizing other related  
 actions; and containing a severability clause.   
 Board Member Schmid introduced by                
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 89                     
       An ordinance amending Section              
 20.16.060 of Section One of Ordinance 51232      
 pertaining to the proper numbering of houses     
 and structures in the City of St. Louis by       
 requiring such numbers to be at least four       
 inches high at both the street entrance and      
 alley entrance and an emergency clause.          
 Board Member Carter introduced by                
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 90                   
       Ordinance recommended by the Planning    
 Commission on May 4, 2005, to change the       
 zoning of property as indicated on the District
 Map, to the "D" Multiple-Family Dwelling       
 District, so as to include the described parcel
 of land in City Block 5136; and containing an  
 emergency clause.                              
 Board Member Williamson introduced by          
 request:                                       
            Board Bill No. 91                   
      An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on May 4, 2005, to         
 change the zoning of property as indicated on  
 the District Map, to the "G" Local Commercial  
 and Office District, so as to include the      
 described parcel of land in City Block 3852.06;
 and containing an emergency clause.            
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                      
        OF BOARD BILLS                          
      Transportation and Commerce               
         Board Bill Nos. 83, 84, 85             
               Ways & Means                     
                   None                         
               Public Safety                    
      Board Bill Nos. 78, 81, 82, 87, 89        
               Public Utilities                 
                    None                        
                 Legislation                    
                   None                         
         Health & Human Services                
                  None                          
              Public Employees                  
                    None                        
         Streets, Traffic & Refuse              
        Board Bill Nos. 76, 79, 80, 86          
         Intergovernmental Affairs              
                   None                         
    Engrossment, Rules & Resolutions            
                 None                           
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning            
      Board Bill Nos. 77, 88, 90, 91            
        Neighborhood Development                
                  None                          
           Convention & Tourism                 
                   None                         
      Parks & Environmental Matters             
                  None                          
        Personnel & Administration              
                   None                         
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                         
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                          
     Mr. Schmid of the Committee on                
Legislation submitted the following report         
which was read.                                    
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,            
May 13, 2005.                                      
     To the President of the Board of              
Aldermen:                                          
     The Committee on Legislation to whom          
was referred the following Board Bills, report     
that they have considered the same and             
recommend adoption.                                
            Board Bill No. 16                      
      An ordinance adopted pursuant to             
Section 105.483 (11) RSMo., reaffirming the        
provisions of Ordinance 62391 establishing a       
policy for the disclosure of potential conflicts   
of interest and substantial interests for certain  
municipal officials, and containing an             
emergency clause.                                  
     Alderman Schmid                               
     Chairman of the Committee                     
     Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on               
Public Safety submitted the following report       
which was read.                                    
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,            
May 13, 2005.                                      
     To the President of the Board of              
Aldermen:                                          
     The Committee on Public Safety to             
whom was referred the following Board Bills,       
report that they have considered the same and      
recommend adoption.                                
          Board Bill No. 24                        
       (Committee Substitute)                      
      An ordinance pertaining to motorcycles       
and motorized bicycles; amending Sections          
17.02.300 and 17.02.315 of Section Two of          
Ordinance 58448 defining "motor vehicle" and       
"motorized bicycle"; further amending Section      
17.18 of Section One of Ordinance 57831 to         
provide that the provisions of such section        
shall apply to motorized bicycles; containing      
a penalty clause and an emergency clause.          
            Board Bill No. 59                      
     An ordinance prohibiting the issuance         
of any package or drink liquor licenses for        
any currently non-licensed premises within         
the boundaries of the Twentieth Ward Liquor        
Control District, as established herein, for a     
period of three years from the effective date      
hereof; containing an exception allowing,          
during the moratorium period, for the transfer     
of existing licenses, under certain                
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink         
license to persons operating a restaurant at a     
 previously non-licensed premises; and             
 containing an emergency clause.                   
             Board Bill No. 72                     
             Board Bill No. 75                     
      Alderman Kennedy                             
      Chairman of the Committee                    
      Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways          
 & Means submitted the following report which      
 was read.                                         
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
 May 13, 2005.                                     
      To the President of the Board of             
 Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Ways & Means to             
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,      
 report that they have considered the same and     
 recommend adoption.                               
             Board Bill No. 60                     
       An ordinance recommended by the Board       
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing         
 and directing the issuance and delivery of not    
 to exceed $50,000,00 principal amount of          
 Public Safety General Obligation Refunding        
 Bonds, Series 2005, of the City of St. Louis,     
 Missouri, to effect the refunding of all or a     
 portion of the City of St. Louis, Missouri        
 Public Safety Obligation Bonds, Series 1999       
 (Referred to as the "Refunded Bonds") and         
 paying the costs of issuance of the bonds;        
 setting forth certain terms and conditions for    
 the issuance of such bonds; prescribing the       
 form and details of the bonds; appointing a       
 paying agent and bond registrar in connection     
 with such bonds; appointing an escrow agent       
 in connection with the refunding of the           
 refunded bonds, authorizing the negotiated sale   
 of the bonds and the execution and delivery of    
 a bond purchase agreement; authorizing the        
 preparation, execution and delivery of the        
 continuing disclosure agreement, the escrow       
 agreement, and other matters with respect         
 thereto; authorizing the negotiation and          
 purchase of bond insurance, if any, and the       
 approval and execution of necessary to            
 comply with the duties of the City under any      
 agreement for bond insurance; and providing       
 for the levy and collection of an annual tax for  
 the purpose of paying the principal of and        
 interest on the bonds as they become due;         
 authorizing the proper officials, agents and      
 employees of the City to execute such             
 documents and to take such actions as are         
 necessary or appropriate; repealing ordinances    
 of the City to the extent inconsistent with the   
 terms of this ordinance; and containing           
 severability and emergency clauses.               
      Alderman Conway                              
      Chairman of the Committee                    
            REPORT OF                          
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                     
      None.                                    
            BOARD BILLS                        
           FOR PERFECTION                      
       Mr. Carter moved that Board Bill No.    
 63 before the Board for perfection, be        
 perfected as reported out of Committee with   
 its recommendation "Do Pass".                 
      Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
           THIRD READING                       
         CONSENT CALENDAR                      
       None.                                   
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                    
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                     
     AND FINAL PASSAGE OF                      
          BOARD BILLS                          
      None.                                    
         REPORT OF THE                         
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                      
      None.                                    
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                     
        CONSENT CALENDAR                       
       Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced     
 Resolution Nos. 20-25 and the Clerk was       
 instructed to read same.                      
            Resolution No. 20                  
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised that      
 Kevin C. Dolliole has been appointed Director 
 of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport;   
 and                                           
      WHEREAS, Mr. Dolliole comes to St.       
 Louis from San Antonio, Texas where he has    
 served as Aviation Director for the City of   
 San Antonio since 1999; and                   
       WHEREAS, Mr. Dolliole, who is a         
 distinguished graduate of the University of   
 New Orleans and Xavier University of New      
 Orleans, began his career in airport          
 management in October 1989 as the Deputy      
 Director of Aviation-Facilities Management    
 at New Orleans International Airport; and     
       WHEREAS, Mr. Dolliole brings to St.     
 Louis and Lambert St. Louis International     
 Airport an outstanding background in the field
 of aviation and we look forward to working    
 closely with him in overseeing the expansion  
 of the airport's infrastructure and the growth
 of commercial and passenger operations;       
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                     
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of          
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our   
 deliberations welcome Kevin C. Dolliole to    
 the City of St. Louis and we wish him success 
 in the many challenges facing him as Director 
of Lambert St. Louis International Airport and     
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to       
spread a copy of this Resolution across the        
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a      
commemorative copy for presentation to our         
honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate     
by the Sponsor.                                    
Introduced on the 6th day of May, 2005 by:         
Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7th Ward       
           Resolution No. 21                       
      WHEREAS,, we have been apprised              
that Lt. Michael E. Williams, MD, USN, has         
recently returned home after a six month           
deployment to the Persian Gulf in support of       
Operation Iraqi Freedom and the global war         
on terrorism; and                                  
       WHEREAS,, Whereas, Lt. Williams,            
who is the son of Terran and Lela Williams, is     
a distinguished graduate of Hazelwood Central      
High School, where he was a member of the          
National Honor Society, and the University         
of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine,        
excelling in psychiatry; and                       
      WHEREAS,, Whereas, Lt. Williams              
serves as the General Medical Officer aboard       
the aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman and       
is responsible for the primary medical care        
for more than 3200 sailors and ship personnel;     
and                                                
      WHEREAS,, Whereas, during his                
exceptional military career, Lt. Williams has      
been recognized on numerous occasions for          
his insightful and professional medical care       
and for his contributions under his direction      
the USS Harry S. Truman's Medical Training         
Team received the Blue M. Award for Medical        
Readiness in 2003, the United States Atlantic      
Fleet Battle E. Award in 2003, a score of 97.5%    
on the Tailored Ships' Training Availability/      
Final Evaluation Period in 2004 and a 96% on       
the Medical Readiness Inspection in March,         
2004 and                                           
     WHEREAS,, Whereas, in addition to his         
current service with the United States Navy,       
Lt. Williams is a licensed physician in the State  
of Virginia and is pursuing an MBA at Old          
Dominion University; and                           
      WHEREAS,, Whereas, Lt. Williams is           
an outstanding Naval officer and physician         
whose service to this country and dedication       
to the cause of freedom throughout the world       
is greatly appreciated;                            
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our        
deliberations recognize and honor Lt. Michael      
Williams and we thank him for his selfless         
contributions to this country as a member of       
the United States Navy and we further direct       
 the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of       
 this Resolution across the minutes of these       
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy for presentation to our honoree at a time    
 and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.      
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2005 by:       
 Honorable C. Quincy Troupe, Alderman 1st Ward     
             Resolution No. 22                     
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
 after almost 18 years of dedicated service to     
 the City of St. Louis City Board of Aldermen      
 and the citizens of the City of St. Louis, June   
 Rideout retired on April 1, 2005; and             
       WHEREAS, June began her career in           
 public service in June, 1987 as an employee       
 of the Office of the Collector of Revenue; and    
      WHEREAS, on July 1, 1996, June               
 transferred to the Board of Aldermen and          
 assumed the duties and responsibilities of an     
 aldermanic secretary which she performed with     
 dedication and professionalism; and               
      WHEREAS, in addition to the                  
 outstanding service she provided to her           
 aldermen and their constituents, June             
 coordinated the Board of Aldermen's               
 participation in the City's annual charity        
 drive; and                                        
      WHEREAS, we are certain that June is         
 looking forward to a well deserved retirement     
 with her husband, Don; her children and           
 grandchildren and her many friends;               
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to congratulate June Rideout for    
 18 years of service to the City of St. Louis      
 and we wish her peace and happiness in her        
 retirement and we direct the Clerk of this Board  
 to spread a copy of this Resolution across the    
 minutes of these proceedings and to further       
 prepare a commemorative copy to the end           
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a      
 time and place deemed appropriate by the          
 Sponsor.                                          
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2005 by:       
 Honorable Lewis Reed, Alderman 6th Ward           
             Resolution No. 23                     
      WHEREAS, we pause in our                     
 deliberations to recognize Reverend John          
 (Jack) Gavin, OSA, who has served the St.         
 Louis community as Pastor of Immaculate           
 Conception/St. Henry Catholic Church for          
 more than 23 years; and                           
      WHEREAS, Reverend Gavin was                  
 ordained a priest in the Order of St. Augustine   
 on June 5, 1948 and is a distinguished graduate   
 of Catholic University in Washington, DC;         
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, since his ordination              
 Reverend Gavin has served primarily as an       
 educator, teaching at numerous high schools     
 and seminaries throughout the Midwest           
 including Mendel Catholic High School in        
 Chicago and St. Augustine's Preparatory         
 Seminary in Holland, Michigan; and              
       WHEREAS, after serving as a delegate      
 to the General Chapter to revise the            
 Constitution of the worldwide Order of St.      
 Augustine in 1968, Reverend Gavin was           
 assigned as Principal of Augustinian Academy    
 in St. Louis and continued to serve the St.     
 Louis community in this role until the school's 
 closure in 1972; and                            
       WHEREAS, Reverend Gavin returned          
 to Mendel High School in Chicago and served     
 as Principal until 1982 when he received his    
 first pastoral assignment as Pastor of          
 Immaculate Conception/St. Henry Parish; and     
      WHEREAS, for more than 23 years            
 Reverend Gavin has served as friend,            
 counselor, confessor and spiritual leader to    
 the members of the Immaculate Conception/       
 St. Henry Parish and to individuals and         
 families throughout the St. Louis area; and     
       WHEREAS, Reverend Gavin is an             
 exceptional member of our community whose       
 service to his parish family and to all of our  
 citizens is greatly appreciated;                
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize and honor Reverend   
 John (Jack) Gavin and we thank him for his      
 outstanding service to our community and we     
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree at a time and       
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2005 by:     
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President        
            Resolution No. 24                    
       WHEREAS,, we pause in our                 
 deliberations to recognize a prominent member   
 of the St. Louis community, Richard J. Mark,    
 who serves as the Senior Vice-President for     
 AmerenUE Energy Delivery; and                   
      WHEREAS,, Richard is a distinguished       
 graduate of Iowa State University and holds a   
 Masters of Science in Business Management       
 as well as being board certified in the field of
 healthcare management; and                      
      WHEREAS,, prior to beginning his career    
 with Ameren Corporation in 2002, Richard        
 served as President and Chief Executive         
Officer of St. Mary's Hospital in East St.         
Louis, Illinois, and is credited with stabilizing  
the hospital's financial position and improving    
the quality of healthcare services available to    
the community; and                                 
      WHEREAS,, as Senior Vice-President           
for AmerenUE Energy Delivery, Richard is           
responsible for all electric and natural gas       
distribution and customer service operations       
in the State of Missouri; and                      
     WHEREAS,, in addition to his work for         
Ameren Corporation, Richard is actively            
involved in numerous civic and charitable          
organizations, including the East St. Louis        
NAACP Board of Directors, the East St. Louis       
Breakthrough Collaborative Board, the Major        
Case Squad Board of Directors and the              
Belleville Dioceses Catholic Community             
Foundation; and                                    
      WHEREAS,, Richard is an outstanding          
member of this community whose service to          
the residents of the City of St. Louis and the     
State of Missouri is greatly appreciated;          
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our        
deliberations to recognize and honor Richard       
J. Mark and to thank him for his outstanding       
contributions to the citizen of St. Louis and      
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to       
spread a copy of this Resolution across the        
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a      
commemorative copy for presentation to our         
honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate     
by the Sponsor.                                    
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2005 by:        
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr., Alderman 3rd Ward   
            Resolution No. 25                      
      WHEREAS, in the year 1975 the Black          
members of the International Brotherhood of        
Teamsters found it necessary to form an            
organization within the structure of the           
Teamsters Union to address issues relating to      
the black membership; and                          
     WHEREAS, citizens of the St. Louis            
local unions of the Teamsters served as            
founding Brothers of this organization; Levi       
Sanford, vice-president, Local 688; Francis        
Hicks, president of Local 50 and Louis             
Richard, the first black appointed to the IBT      
executive staff in Washington D.C.; and            
      WHEREAS, in 1975 John H. Cleveland           
was appointed the first National Chairman of       
the Teamsters National Black Caucus and was        
elected in 1976 as the first black Vice-President  
of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters;     
and                                                
      WHEREAS, Edward "Doc" James was             
 appointed the second National Chairman in        
 1989 after the Death of John Cleveland; and      
      WHEREAS, in 1994, Claude Brown of           
 the International Brotherhood of Teamsters       
 became the third National Chairman fo the        
 Teamsters National Black Caucus and was          
 succeeded by F. Christopher Silvera, who was     
 reelected to a second term as National           
 Chairman in 2003; and                            
      WHEREAS, Louis "Lou" Richard has            
 served as Executive Director under National      
 Chairmen James, Brown and Silvera; and           
       WHEREAS, the Teamsters National            
 Black Caucus' purpose and objective is to:       
 uphold the principles of the Teamsters           
 movement; unite African Americans, other         
 minorities and person of good will for           
 education and training about the Trade Union     
 movement; assist other organizations having      
 purposes and objectives in common with the       
 Teamsters National Black Caucus; engage in       
 activities which will advance the interests of   
 the Teamsters National Black Caucus; and         
 assist local Teamsters National Black Caucus     
 chapters and the International Brotherhood       
 of Teamsters; and                                
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize the members and       
 leadership of the Teamsters National Black       
 Caucus and we thank them for their many          
 contributions to our community and to the        
 Trade Movement throughout the country and        
 we further direct the Clerk of this Board to     
 spread a copy of this Resolution across the      
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a    
 commemorative copy for presentation to our       
 honorees at a time and place deemed              
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2005 by:      
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward  
      Unanimous consent having been               
 obtained Resolution Nos. 20-25 stood             
 considered.                                      
      Mr. President Shrewsbury moved that         
 Resolution Nos. 20-25 be adopted, at this        
 meeting of the Board.                            
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
             FIRST READING                        
            OF RESOLUTIONS                        
       None.                                      
            SECOND READING                        
            OF RESOLUTIONS                        
       None.                                      
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                      
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                    
      None.                                    
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                       
      None.                                    
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                      
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the          
 following aldermen due to their necessary     
 absence: Ms. Ford-Griffin, Mr. Gregali, Ms.   
 Jones-King and Ms. Krewson.                   
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                   
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
              ADJOURNMENT                      
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under      
 rules to return Friday, May 20, 2005.         
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
      Respectfully submitted,                  
      Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk              
      Board of Aldermen                        
   BOARD OF                                    
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                
          REGULAR MEETING                      
      St. Louis, MO - May 17, 2005             
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                   
      Present: Directors Bess, Moore, Simon    
 and President Melton                          
      Absent: Directors Visintainer, Suelmann  
 and Siedhoff. (excused)                       
       Request of the Director of Public       
 Utilities to be excused designating Mr. James 
 Kummer to act in his behalf; Directors of     
 Streets and Human Services to be excused from 
 the Regular Meeting of May 17, 2005 were      
 received and leaves of absence granted.       
       Minutes of the Regular Meeting of       
 May 10, 2005 were approved, as they appear    
 of record in the Minute Book.                 
      The following documents were referred    
 by the Secretary:                             
               May 11, 2005                    
       To the President and Directors of Public
 Utilities, Streets and Parks, Recreation &    
 Forestry: 109997, Parsons Infrastructure and  
 Technology Group, pedestrian traffic signals  
 for the River Des Peres - Gateway Greenways   
 Pilot Program.                                
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and 
 Public Safety: 109998, Andrew & Pamela        
 Nance, deed for lot consolidation of 2355     
Michigan and 3143 Sidney into one lot in        
C.B. 1432                                       
     To the Director of Streets: Petition No.   
6636, St. Louis Casino Corp. and Casino         
Magic Corp, vacate irregular portion of 3rd     
from Dr. Martin Luther King to Carr adjacent    
to C.B. 70.                                     
     To the Directors of Parks, Recreation      
and Forestry and Health and Hospitals:          
110000, African & Caribbean Faces, Inc., hold   
event June 11, 2005 at Kiener Plaza and May     
Amphitheater; 109999, Shaw Neighborhood         
Association, hold event October 1-2, 2005 at    
Flora Place Median and close Flora Place b/t    
Thurman and Tower Grove.                        
              May 12, 2005                      
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and  
Streets: 110001, Union Electric Company         
d/b/a AmerenUE, bore under alley just east of   
S. Newstead and south of Hunt for connection    
at 1519 Tower Grove.                            
     To the Directors of Public Utilities and   
Public Safety: 110002, Albert Manson,           
consolidate parcels of land in C.B. 4484-S at   
4864 and 4868 St. Louis.                        
     To the Directors of Health and Hospitals   
and Public Safety: 110003, Home Learning        
Daycare, conduct day care center at 2651        
Iowa.                                           
     To the Director of Public Safety: 110004,  
Samuel Cecil House, operate a bed and           
breakfast at 1917 Hickory.                      
              May 17, 2005                      
     To the Directors of Streets and Public     
Safety: 110005, The 5700 Property, LLC, to      
name four streets in the Park Ridge Estates     
Subdivision as Park Ridge Way, Park Ridge       
Lane, Garden Hill Lane, Vera Court.             
     To the Directors of Health and Hospitals   
and Public Safety: 110006, Step Ahead           
Childcare Academy, Inc., conduct day care       
center at 6514 Lansdowne; 110007, ESN           
Young Expressions, conduct day care center      
at 3905 N. 22nd; 110008, Medallion School       
Partnership d/b/a St. James the Greater,        
conduct day care center at 1360 Tamm;           
110009, Tower Grove Christian Preschool,        
conduct day care center at 4257 Magnolia;       
110010, Guardian Angel Settlement               
Association at Desales, conduct day care        
center at 2652 Iowa; 110011, Meritorious        
Care Inc. d/b/a Parkside Towers, conduct long   
term care facility (nursing home) at 4960       
Laclede.                                        
                LETTINGS                        
     Three sealed proposals for the public      
work advertised under Letting No. 8276 -        
Residential Sound Insulation Program Part       
 XXXI at Lambert were received, publicly          
 opened, read and referred to the President.      
      Communications, reports, recommend-         
 ations and documents were submitted by           
 Board Members and action thereon taken as        
 follows:                                         
                PRESIDENT                         
      Draft of the following ordinance            
 approved and Secretary instructed to forward     
 same to the Board of Aldermen with the           
 recommendation that it be passed:                
      "Proposed Board Bill - Board of Public      
 Service to contract for Surface Transportation   
 Programs                                         
       Dr. Martin Luther King Dr. between         
 Jefferson and Kingshighway - City's share is     
 $820,000."                                       
      Addendum No. 1 to the plans and             
 specifications for Letting No. 8277 - 2005       
 Concourse "A" and Concourse "E" Security         
 Screening Checkpoints at Lambert approved        
 and made part of the original plans.             
      Board declared as emergencies the           
 following: Greer and Vandeventer Entry Gate      
 and Cul-de-sac; Asbestos Abatement at South      
 Refuse Garage, 4100 S. 1st                       
 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                     
      Board declared as emergencies the           
 following: Repair of the Brushless Exciter from  
 2000 H.P. Howard Bend Motor #16; Repair/         
 rebuild transmission on backhoe 291-415.         
        DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC                        
       UTILITIES AND STREETS                      
      2 permits ordered approved as follows,      
 subject to certain conditions: 109967, Taylor    
 Morley Custom Homes, bore under alley for        
 underground electric wires at 4169               
 McPherson; 109968, Lucas Lofts, LLC,             
 encroach with balcony, entry-way, driveway,      
 dumpster and utilities at 1123 Washington        
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                          
   UTILITIES, STREETS, PARKS                      
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                       
      Application No. 109663, St. Louis           
 Symphony, hold Gypsy Caravan May 30,             
 2005 in Memorial Plaza Extension between         
 Chestnut/Market/20th/21st ordered approved,      
 subject to certain conditions.                   
        DIRECTORS OF                              
  PUBLIC UTILITIES, PARKS AND                     
    HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                          
       Application No. 109414, Shakespeare        
 Festival, hold event May 27, 2005 to             
 June 19, 2005 in Forest Park (load-in May 2-     
 26; load-out June 20-24), ordered approved,      
 subject to certain conditions.                   
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      3 subdivisions ordered approved as        
 follows, subject to certain conditions: 109998,
 Andrew & Pamela Nance, 2355 Michigan and       
 3143 Sidney in C.B. 1432; 108990, Modrain,     
 LLC, 4460-62 Oakland in C.B. 5108; 110002,     
 Albert Manson, C.B. 4484-S at 4864 and 4868    
 St. Louis Avenue.                              
       Application No. 109991, Investor's       
 Title, subdivide property in C.B. 372 at 1800  
 S. 8th/716 Soulard ordered denied, proposed    
 lots do not meet minimum lot size required     
 by Zoning Code.                                
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
       3 encroachment permits ordered           
 approved as follows, subject to certain        
 conditions: 109971, Shenandoah Crossing        
 Business Association, 8 banners on cobra head  
 light standards located near the intersection  
 of Shenandoah/Compton and Shenandoah/          
 Nebraska; 109975, Liberty Street Restaurant    
 Group, sidewalk cafe at 5513 Pershing;         
 109992, MAP Properties, LLC, fence at 4170     
 Arsenal.                                       
     DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                        
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                      
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                     
      Application No. 110000, African &         
 Caribbean Faces, Inc., hold event June 11,     
 2005 in Kiener Plaza and May Amphitheater      
 ordered approved, subject to certain           
 conditions.                                    
 ROOMING HOUSES AND HOTELS                      
      1 rooming house ordered revoked as        
 follows: 65304, Sara Strathmann Rodriquez,     
 2817 Russell.                                  
      The following documents were not listed   
 on the posted Agenda: 268058 and 268067-       
 70.                                            
     Adjourned to meet Tuesday, May 24,         
 2005 at 1:45 P.M.                              
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.       
                 President                      
 ATTEST:                                        
                 Darlene A. Plump               
                 Secretary                      
     REQUEST FOR                                
      PROPOSALS                                 
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                        
    BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                     
      The City of St. Louis invites interested  
 firms to submit Proposals for PROVISION        
 OF OFFICE SPACE FOR THE CITY OF                
 ST. LOUIS DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH                 
 AND HOSPITALS, DEPARTMENT OF                   
HUMAN SERVICES, and, as an option CITY            
COURTS.                                           
     The Request for Qualifications package       
may be obtained from BPS website under            
Contracts & Bids, Professional Services; by       
picking the RFQ up at Board of Public Service,    
1200 Market Street, Room 301 City Hall,           
St. Louis, MO 63103; or by calling Bette          
Behan at 314-589-6214 during the hours of         
8am-5pm commencing Monday, May 9, 2005.           
     A pre-proposal conference is scheduled       
for Wednesday, May 18, 2005 at 10:00 a.m.         
in Room 208 City Hall, 1200 Market Street,        
St. Louis, MO 63103.                              
     The City of St. Louis has established        
M/WBE participation goals of 25% and 5%,          
respectively, for this project.                   
     Proposals will be received no later than     
4:30 p.m., July 7, 2005, at BPS at the same       
address as listed above.                          
     The City of St. Louis reserves the right     
to accept or reject any or all responses, or to   
cancel this request in part or in its entirety.   
            Office of the                         
       Board of Public Service                    
          City of St. Louis                       
    SEALED PROPOSALS will be received             
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at      
the Office of the Board of Public Service,        
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,             
June 14,2005, St. Louis, Missouri time, at        
which time they will be publicly opened and       
read, viz:                                        
LETTING NO. 8278: Communications                  
Infrastructure Upgrade at Lambert-St. Louis       
International Airport                             
DEPOSIT: $62,725.00                               
     Plans, specifications and general            
information may be obtained in the Office of      
the Chief Engineer for Planning/Engineering,      
Room MT-1296, Airport Main Terminal,              
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, from     
8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday through Friday         
and upon payment of ONE HUNDRED and               
FIFTY dollars ($150.00) for each package.         
Purchased sets become the property of the         
prospective bidder and no refunds will be         
made. Information concerning this project         
may be obtained by telephoning                    
(314) 426-8015.                                   
      Proposals must be made on blank forms       
to be furnished by the President of the Board     
of Public Service, and must be submitted to       
Room 208, City Hall.                              
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal   
in figures, without interlineations, alterations  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those       
 items where so called for in the proposal, and    
 shall show the products of the respective unit    
 prices and estimated quantities. He shall also    
 show in figures bid proposals for all items on    
 which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,        
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the    
 Lump Sum for which he will perform all of         
 the estimated work, as requested by the           
 general requirements and covenants,               
 specifications and plans.                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the         
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that          
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as     
 applied to be basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                          
      Each bid must be accompanied by a            
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or       
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,         
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer,       
 for the amount of deposit required, as            
 heretofore stated.                                
       All work under this contract will be paid   
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of        
 the work completed, less a retained amount        
 of ten percent (10%). Final payment, including    
 all retained percentages, will be made within     
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and    
 final acceptance by the City.                     
       "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies      
 all bidders that it will affirmatively insure     
 that in any contract entered into pursuant to     
 this advertisement, minority business             
 enterprises will be afforded full opportunity     
 to submit bids in response to this invitation     
 and will not be discriminated against on the      
 grounds of race, color or national origin in      
 consideration for an award."                      
       The contract shall provide that not less    
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in       
 the City of St. Louis as determined by the        
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
 of workmen needed in the actual construction      
 work on the site of the construction job herein   
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
 be paid to all workmen.                           
      All labor to be performed under this         
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
 Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.               
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
    By order of the Board of Public Service,       
 MAY 17, 2005.                                     
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Darlene A. Plump                
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at     
 the Office of the Board of Public Service,       
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.             
 May 24, 2005, St. Louis, Missouri time, at       
 which time they will be publicly opened and      
 read, viz:                                       
 LETTING NO. 8277: 2005 Concourse "A"             
 and Concourse "E" Security Screening             
 Checkpoints at LAMBERT ST. LOUIS                 
 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                            
 DEPOSIT: $52,725.00                              
       Plans, specifications and general          
 information may be obtained in the Office of     
 the Chief Engineer for Planning and              
 Engineering, Room MT-1296, Airport Main          
 Terminal, Lambert-St. Louis International        
 Airport, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday         
 through Friday and upon payment of ONE           
 HUNDRED-FIFTY dollars ($150.00) for              
 each package. Purchased sets become the          
 property of the prospective bidder and no        
 refunds will be made. Information concerning     
 this project may be obtained by telephoning      
 (314) 426-8015.                                  
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208, City Hall.                             
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations 
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications       
 and plans.                                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as    
 applied to be basic items, the latter shall      
 prevail.                                         
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer,      
 for the amount of deposit required, as           
 heretofore stated.                               
      All work under this contract will be paid   
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the    
work completed, less a retained amount of         
ten percent (10%). Final payment, including       
all retained percentages, will be made within     
ten (10) days after completion of all work        
and final acceptance by the City.                 
      "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies      
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure     
that in any contract entered into pursuant to     
this advertisement, minority business             
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity     
to submit bids in response to this invitation     
and will not be discriminated against on the      
grounds of race, color or national origin in      
consideration for an award." The                  
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Goal for        
this project is 30%.                              
      The contract shall provide that not less    
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
City of St. Louis as determined by the            
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
of workmen needed in the actual construction      
work on the site of the construction job herein   
authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
be paid to all workmen.                           
      All labor to be performed under this        
contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.               
      The right of the Board of Public Service    
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
   By order of the Board of Public Service,       
APRIL 26, 2005                                    
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.         
                 President                        
ATTEST:                                           
                 Darlene A. Plump                 
                 Secretary                        
   PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
      A public hearing will be held by the        
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
Wednesday, May 25, 2005, in Room 208 City         
Hall to consider the following:                   
     APPEAL #8441 - Appeal filed by               
Montrice Lewis, from the determination of         
the Board of Public Service in the denial of an   
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant        
to operate a day care center for 20 children at   
4657 Virginia. Ward 25 #AO328491-05               
ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial               
District                                          
     APPEAL #8449 - Appeal filed by John          
MacGoy, from the determination of the             
Building Commissioner in the denial of three      
 building permits authorizing the Appellant to     
 construct a parking lot at 5201-11 Riverview      
 Blvd and 5911 Theodore and construct an           
 addition at 5823-25 Theodore. Ward 27             
 #AB333301-05                 #AB333770-05         
 #AB333779-05             ZONE: "F" -              
 Neighborhood Commercial District.                 
      APPEAL #8450 - Appeal filed by               
 Dimartino Homes, from the determination of        
 the Board of Public Service in the denial of a    
 subdivision plat authorizing the Appellant to     
 resubdivide at 2712 January in city block         
 4054-A Ward 10 BPS #109932 ZONE:                  
 "A" - Single Family Dwelling District             
      APPEAL #8451 - Appeal filed by               
 Dennis Potthast, from the determination of        
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to      
 convert a two family into a three family at       
 5107 Daggett. Ward 10 #AB333477-05                
 ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling                
 District                                          
      In accordance with the provisions of         
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
     By authority of the Board of                  
 Adjustment.                                       
      E. Smoot, Chairman                           
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
       A public hearing will be held by the        
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
 Wednesday, June 1, 2005, in Room 208 City         
 Hall to consider the following:                   
      APPEAL #8359 - Hearing for Granite           
 Works LLC to consider the revocation of a         
 variance for an occupancy permit with             
 conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
 operate an office, retail sales business,         
 showroom and repair of countertops at 5959        
 Delmar. Ward 26 #AO314308-04 ZONE:                
 "G" - Local Commercial & Office District          
      APPEAL #8452 - Appeal filed by               
 Princella Wilson, from the determination of       
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 home occupancy waiver authorizing the             
 Appellant to operate a home day care for 10       
 children at 6312 Sherry. Ward 27 ZONE:            
 "A" - Single Family Dwelling District             
      APPEAL #8453 - Appeal filed by Mary          
 Margaret Daycare and Learning Center, from        
 the determination of the Building                 
 Commissioner in the denial of a building          
 permit authorizing the Appellant to construct     
 a commercial building and parking lot to utilize  
 as a daycare and learning center at 4040 S.       
 Broadway. Ward 9 #AB333470-05 ZONE:               
 "B" - Two Family Dwelling District &              
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District            
       APPEAL #8454 - Appeal filed by           
 Vincent Imo, from the determination of the     
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a       
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to   
 do interior alterations to have a drive/pick-up
 window and awning with signage per plans at    
 4780 S. Spring. Ward 25 #AB335377-05           
 ZONE: "D" - Multiple Family Dwelling           
 District.                                      
      In accordance with the provisions of      
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
     By authority of the Board of               
 Adjustment.                                    
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                   
    PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held    
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on          
 Thursday, June 2, 2005, on the following       
 conditional uses:                              
     2742 Accomac - Home Occupancy              
 Waiver - Carpenter - (Office Use Only) -       
 "C" Multiple Family Dwelling District. Bl      
 WARD 7                                         
      4644 Dahlia - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Plumber - (Office Use Only) - "A" Single     
 Family Dwelling District. Mv WARD 13           
      3618 French Avenue - Home                 
 Occupancy Waiver - HVAC - Sheet Metal -        
 (Office Use Only) - "A" Single Family          
 Dwelling District. Mv WARD 11                  
      3530 Missouri - In Home Day Care 10       
 Children: 2-8 yrs M-F 6A-6P - "C" Multiple     
 Family Dwelling District. Mv WARD 9            
     5345 Murdoch - Home Occupancy              
 Waiver - Lawn Care - (Office Use Only) -       
 "B" Two Family Dwelling District. Pmg          
 WARD 14                                        
     6102 Pennsylvania - Home Occupancy         
 Waiver - Auto Detail - (Office Use Only) -     
 "B" Two Family Dwelling District. Pmg          
 WARD 11                                        
      6430 Pernod - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Wholesale buyers for Independent Garden      
 Centers - "A" Single Family Dwelling District. 
 Pmg WARD 23                                    
      5637 Rhodes - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Contractor - (Office Use Only) - "A" Single  
 Family Dwelling District. Mb WARD 16           
     4647 Tower Grove - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Computer Sales - (Office Use Only)-   
 "A" Single Family Dwelling District. Mv        
 WARD 8                                         
     1908 Cherokee - #AO335921-05 -             
 Carry Out Deli (No Cooking)/Catering-          
Vending Machine Products - "G" Local               
Commercial and Office District. Mv                 
WARD 9                                             
      5800 West Florissant - #AO337268-            
05 - Day Care 47 Kids: 2 1/2 t 12 yrs M-F 6A-      
6P - "F" Neighborhood Commercial District.         
Mv WARD 27                                         
     1408 N Kingshighway - #AO334161-              
05 - Karate School Suite # 012 - "F"               
Neighborhood Commercial and Office                 
District. Mv WARD 18                               
    4226 N 20th Street - #AO337690-05 -            
GED Classes, Tutoring, Motivational Classes        
(Teens & Adults) - "F" Neighborhood                
Commercial District. Mv WARD 3                     
     5340 Delmar - #AB336786-05 - Install          
Cellular Antennas & Equipment RM (Roof             
Top) Per Plans - "E" Multiple Family               
Dwelling District. WARD 26                         
    6313 Michigan - #AB337708-05 -                 
Construct Parking Lot (Per Plans) - "F"            
Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg              
WARD 11                                            
     PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
     The Housing, Urban Development and            
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of         
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on             
June 1, 2005 at 10:00 A.M. in the Kennedy          
Room (208) in City Hall:                           
     BOARD BILL NO. 17                             
      INTRODUCED BY                                
ALDERMAN MICHAEL MCMILLAN                          
     An Ordinance recommended by the               
Planning Commission on February 2, 2005,           
to change the zoning of property as indicated      
on the District Map, to the "G" Local              
Commercial and Office District, so as to           
include the described parcel of land in City       
Block 1862; and containing an emergency            
clause.                                            
        BOARD BILL NO. 18                          
         INTRODUCED BY                             
     ALDERMAN JOSEPH RODDY                         
      An Ordinance recommended by the              
Planning Commission on March 2, 2005, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on      
the District Map, to the "J" Industrial District,  
so as to include the described parcel of land in   
City Block 3904; and containing an emergency       
clause.                                            
        BOARD BILL NO. 19                          
         INTRODUCED BY                             
     ALDERMAN JOSEPH RODDY                         
     An Ordinance recommended by the               
Planning Commission on March 2, 2005, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on      
 the District Map, to the "G" Local Commercial     
 and Office District, so as to include the         
 described parcels of land in City Block           
 3919.03; and containing an emergency clause.      
        BOARD BILL NO. 20                          
          INTRODUCED BY                            
       ALDERMAN TOM BAUER                          
      An Ordinance recommended by the              
 Planning Commission on February 2, 2005,          
 to change the zoning of property as indicated     
 on the District Map, to the "F" Neighborhood      
 Commercial District, so as to include the         
 described parcel of land in City Block 4016;      
 and containing an emergency clause.               
         BOARD BILL NO. 21                         
          INTRODUCED BY                            
       ALDERMAN LEWIS REED                         
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on March 2, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, to the "I" Central Business     
 District, so as to include the described parcel   
 of land in City Block 918; and containing an      
 emergency clause.                                 
         BOARD BILL NO. 22                         
          INTRODUCED BY                            
       ALDERMAN LEWIS REED                         
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on March 2, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, to the "I" Central Business     
 District, so as to include the described parcels  
 of land in City Blocks 930 & 931; and             
 containing an emergency clause.                   
         BOARD BILL NO. 53                         
          INTRODUCED BY                            
       ALDERMAN LEWIS REED                         
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on April 6, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, to the "I" Central Business     
 District, so as to include the described parcels  
 of land in City Blocks 918, 2009 & 2012; and      
 containing an emergency clause.                   
         BOARD BILL NO. 54                         
          INTRODUCED BY                            
       ALDERMAN LEWIS REED                         
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on April 6, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, to the "I" Central Business     
 District, so as to include the described parcels  
 of land in City Blocks 935 & 2010; and            
 containing an emergency clause.                   
       BOARD BILL NO. 55                           
        INTRODUCED BY                              
    ALDERMAN TERRY KENNEDY                         
      An Ordinance recommended by the              
 Planning Commission on April 6, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on   
 the District Map, to the "H" Area Commercial    
 District, so as to include the described parcels
 of land in City Blocks 3922 and 5035; and       
 containing an emergency clause.                 
         BOARD BILL NO. 56                       
           INTRODUCED BY                         
            ALDERWOMAN                           
         APRIL FORD-GRIFFIN                      
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on April 6, 2005, to        
 change the zoning of property as indicated on   
 the District Map, to the "I" Central Business   
 District, so as to include the described parcel 
 of land in City Block 524; and containing an    
 emergency clause.                               
      BOARD BILL NO. 61                          
       INTRODUCED BY                             
  ALDERWOMAN PHYLLIS YOUNG                       
      An ordinance establishing and creating a   
 Planned Unit Development District for a         
 portion of City Block 1256 to be known as       
 the "Carroll Street Condominiums Planned        
 Unit Development District".                     
      BOARD BILL NO. 90                          
       INTRODUCED BY                             
  ALDERMAN GREGORY CARTER                        
      An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission on May 4, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on   
 the District Map, to the "D" Multiple-Family    
 Dwelling District, so as to include the         
 described parcel of land in City Block 5136;    
 and containing an emergency clause.             
      BOARD BILL NO. 91                          
       INTRODUCED BY                             
 ALDERMAN FRANK WILLIAMSON                       
      An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission on May 4, 2005, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on   
 the District Map, to the "G" Local Commercial   
 and Office District, so as to include the       
 described parcel of land in City Block 3852.06; 
 and containing an emergency clause.             
      Any person wishing to speak for or         
 against the above cited board bills should be   
 present.                                        
  SEALED PROPOSALS                               
      BOARD OF EDUCATION OF                      
       THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS                     
        Bid No. RFP 031-0405                     
       Sealed proposals will be received by the  
 St. Louis Public School before closing date,    
 Thursday, June 2, 2005 at 11:00 a.m., 2nd Fl.   
 for furnishing the following:                   
      ANNUAL FIRE ALARM                         
   TESTING AND INSPECTIONS                      
     Bid will be publicly opened and read at    
the above time. The Board of Education          
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.   
      Specifications, inquiries and require-    
ments for bidding may be obtained at the        
Office of Materials Management, 801 N. 11th     
St., 2nd fl, St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact       
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any          
questions.                                      
 SEALED PROPOSALS                               
    BOARD OF EDUCATION OF                       
     THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS                      
      Bid No. RFP 030-0405                      
      Sealed proposals will be received by the  
St. Louis Public School before closing date,    
Wednesday, May 25, 2005 at 11:00 a.m., 2nd      
Fl. for furnishing the following:               
      COMMUNITY EDUCATION                       
       CENTER BROCHURES                         
     Bid will be publicly opened and read at    
the above time. The Board of Education          
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.   
      Specifications, inquiries and require-    
ments for bidding may be obtained at the        
Office of Materials Management, 801 N. 11th     
St., 2nd fl, St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact       
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any          
questions.                                      
 SEALED PROPOSALS                               
    BOARD OF EDUCATION OF                       
     THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS                      
      Bid No. RFP 029-0405                      
      Sealed proposals will be received by the  
St. Louis Public School before closing date,    
Tuesday, May 31, 2005 at 11:00 a.m., 2nd Fl.    
for furnishing the following:                   
  BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND                       
     ASSEMBLY TESTING                           
     Bid will be publicly opened and read at    
the above time. The Board of Education          
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.   
      Specifications, inquiries and require-    
ments for bidding may be obtained at the        
Office of Materials Management, 801 N. 11th     
St., 2nd fl, St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact       
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any          
questions.                                      
 INVITATION TO BID                                 
  Board of Police Commissioners                    
  Metropolitan Police Department                   
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                   
 BID #720-050180         Ammunition                
 BID #650-000473         Trousers - REBID          
 BID #640-000459         Auto Parts and            
                         Supplies - REBID          
       Sealed bids for the above will be received  
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police              
 Department, Office of the Director of             
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.       
 local time, Friday, June 3, 2005 when they        
 will be opened publicly and announced.            
       Official bid forms on which bids must       
 be submitted may be obtained from the Office      
 of the Director of Purchasing by prospective      
 bidders upon request in person or by              
 telephone during regular business hours.          
       Contractor shall not discriminate in        
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,       
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against      
 any employee or applicant for employment          
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national    
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient         
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the          
 contract, and the Board of Police                 
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan       
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover    
 any damages resulting from termination.           
       The Board of Police Commissioners           
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and   
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also        
 reserves the right to consider criteria other     
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.      
 Among other factors, the Board will consider      
 the location of the business, minority interest   
 in the business, prior performance and the bid    
 submitted in relation to the needs of the         
 St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.         
       Bidders are hereby advised that the         
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and        
 associated Regulations could apply to the         
 service for which bids are being sought herein.   
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific     
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform     
 work pursuant to a contract executed between      
 the successful bidder and the City must be        
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage      
 rates and if rates are adjusted during term of    
 the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,           
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.   
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage          
 Acknowledgment            and     Acceptance      
 Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit      
 this Declaration with the bid will result in      
 rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's       
 failure to comply with the contract provisions  
 related to the Living Wage Ordinance may        
 result in termination of the contract and the   
 imposition of additional penalties as set for in
 the Ordinance and Regulations.                  
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations   
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,  
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at           
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.          
      CAROL SHEPARD                              
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                     
      PHONE # 314-444-5608                       
     REQUEST FOR                                 
        PROPOSAL                                 
  Board of Police Commissioners                  
  Metropolitan Police Department                 
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
 RFP 710-000001          Legal Counsel - IAD     
       Sealed bids for the above will be received
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department, Office of the Director of           
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.     
 local time, Friday, June 24, 2005 when they     
 will be opened publicly and announced.          
      Request for Proposal documents may         
 be obtained from the Office of the Director of  
 Purchasing by prospective bidders upon          
 request in person or by telephone during        
 regular business hours.                         
       Contractor shall not discriminate in      
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,     
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against    
 any employee or applicant for employment        
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national  
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient       
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the        
 contract, and the Board of Police               
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan     
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover  
 any damages resulting from termination.         
       The Board of Police Commissioners         
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and 
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also      
 reserves the right to consider criteria other   
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.    
 Among other factors, the Board will consider    
 the location of the business, minority interest 
 in the business, prior performance and the bid  
 submitted in relation to the needs of the       
 St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.       
       Bidders are hereby advised that the       
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and      
 associated Regulations could apply to the       
 service for which bids are being sought herein. 
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
work pursuant to a contract executed between       
the successful bidder and the City must be         
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of     
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,            
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
Acknowledgment            and     Acceptance       
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit       
this Declaration with the bid will result in       
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's        
failure to comply with the contract provisions     
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may           
result in termination of the contract and the      
imposition of additional penalties as set for in   
the Ordinance and Regulations.                     
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,     
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
     CAROL SHEPARD                                 
     DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                        
     PHONE # 314-444-5608                          
 DEPARTMENT                                        
OF PERSONNEL                                       
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                        
     The City of St. Louis, Department of          
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,           
announces competitive Civil Service                
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
Service.                                           
____________________________________               
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examination is June 3, 2005.         
      UTILITY WORKER (LEAD)                        
            Prom./O.C. 1055                        
   (PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATION                        
     OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                        
          EMPLOYEES ONLY)                          
$24,726 to $37,856 (Annual Salary Range)           
     Application period for the following          
examination will close when enough                 
applications are received to fill anticipated      
vacancies. Please submit application as soon       
as possible.                                       
 HEALTH SERVICES MANAGER I                         
 (ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL)                         
           Prom./O.C.C. 1054                       
$56,914 to $87,100 (Annual Salary Range)           
      Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
Security, and Employee Retirement System           
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to    
salary.                                            
       Application forms and further               
 information concerning duties of positions,       
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative  
 weights of examination components, and            
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the  
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114       
 Market Street, Room 703, St. Louis MO             
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the       
 Internet. Visit the city web site at              
 www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with         
 the City.                                         
                  Richard R. Frank                 
                  Director                         
 May 18, 2005                                      
 NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                             
      CITY ORDINANCE requires that any             
 individual or company who performs work           
 within the City limits must obtain a Business     
 License. This would also apply to businesses      
 who employ sales or delivery personnel to         
 come into the City. Contracts requiring work      
 to be performed in the City will NOT be           
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.                 
 Please contact the License Collector,             
 Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,          
 63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may            
 also refer to our on-line site at                 
 www.stlouiscity.com.                              
 ST. LOUIS LIVING                                  
 WAGE ORDINANCE                                    
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                        
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that      
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597        
 and associated Regulations apply to the           
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
 contract executed between the successful          
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
 adjusted during the term of the contract          
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
 to submit this Declaration with the bid           
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
 [proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
 provisions related to the Living Wage             
 Ordinance may result in termination of the        
 contract and the imposition of additional         
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and     
 Regulations.                                    
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations   
 are available upon request from                 
 Mr. Larry Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or       
 can be accessed at http://www.st                
 louiscity.com/living wage.                      
    SUPPLY                                       
 COMMISSIONER                                    
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,              
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,             
 May 24, 2005 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be          
 received by the undersigned to be opened at     
 the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items 
 listed below on the dates specified.            
         Notice to All Suppliers                 
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
 employment practices that are in accordance     
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
 there-under to the end that all Contractors     
 and suppliers of materials and services will    
 offer equal opportunity for employment and      
 job advancement to blacks and other minority    
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
             Requesting a Bid                    
 To have a bid mailed or faxed to you, please    
 contact the Supply Commissioner's office at     
 (314) 622-4580.                                 
 NO ADVERTISED                                   
 BIDS THIS WEEK                                  
       Bidders are invited to be present at the  
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available   
 30 days following the date of bid opening.      
 If you desire bid results, please include a     
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.   
      The City of St. Louis desires to           
 purchase recycled products whenever             
 possible, especially items containing post      
 consumer waste materials. If your company       
 can supply recycled products, please provide    
 information to this office.                     
      The right to reject any and all bids is    
 reserved.                                       
                  Freddie L. Dunlap              
                  Supply Commissioner            
                  (314) 622-4580                 
                  www.stlouis.missouri.org       
