       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
   Board of                       
   Aldermen                       
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2005-2006                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
   Friday, October 21, 2005.      
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers, October 21, 2005.                 
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Flowers,  
 Bosley, Ford-Griffin, Reed, Conway,         
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels,  
 Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, 
 Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Hanrahan, Kirner, 
 Williamson, Carter and Mr. President        
 Shrewsbury. 24                              
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
      None.                                  
           HONORED GUEST                     
      APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
      OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for October 7, 2005.                
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      None.                                  
          Office of the Mayor                
      None.                                  
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                         
     None.                                         
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                         
   - INFORMAL CALENDAR                             
      Mr. Ortmann moved that Board Bill No.        
258 before the Board for perfection, be            
perfected as reported out of Committee with        
its recommendation "Do Pass".                      
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                       
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
         BOARD BILLS FOR                           
          THIRD READING                            
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
     None.                                         
           RESOLUTIONS                             
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
     None.                                         
          FIRST READING OF                         
             BOARD BILLS                           
Board Member Young introduced by                   
request:                                           
           Board Bill No. 286                      
     An ordinance pertaining to parking;           
amending paragraph (L) in Section Two of           
Ordinance 61186, adopted on January 29,            
1989; prohibiting the parking of vehicles in a     
loading zone for a period of time longer than      
is required for expeditious loading and            
unloading of passengers, loading or unloading      
and delivering of materials or the delivery of     
materials, packages parcels or letters, from a     
commercial vehicle; containing an emergency        
clause.                                            
Board Member Villa introduced by request:          
           Board Bill No. 287                      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights  
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel      
in Blow St. from Grand Ave. southeastwardly        
to the Missouri Pacific Railroad right-of-way      
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as             
hereinafter described, in accordance with          
Charter authority, and in conformity with          
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and       
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.      
Board Member Conway introduced by                  
request:                                           
           Board Bill No. 288                      
     An Ordinance approving the Petition of        
Shenandoah Place Community Improvement             
District and Oakview Associates, LLC as            
owner of certain real property, establishing       
the Shenandoah Place Community                     
Improvement District, finding a public             
purpose for the establishment of the               
Shenandoah Place Community Improvement             
District, and containing a severability clause.    
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                     
        OF BOARD BILLS                         
       Transportation & Commerce               
                  None                         
             Ways and Means                    
             Board Bill No. 288                
               Public Safety                   
                  None                         
              Public Utilities                 
                   None                        
                Legislation                    
                  None                         
       Health and Human Services               
                  None                         
             Public Employees                  
                   None                        
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse            
        Board Bills No. 286 and 287            
        Intergovernmental Affairs              
                  None                         
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions          
                 None                          
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning           
                 None                          
       Neighborhood Development                
                 None                          
         Convention and Tourism                
                  None                         
    Parks and Environmental Matters            
                 None                          
      Personnel and Administration             
                  None                         
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                     
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                      
      Ms. Young of the Committee on            
 Transportation and Commerce submitted the     
 following report which was read.              
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,       
 October 21, 2005.                             
      To the President of the Board of         
 Aldermen:                                     
      The Committee on Transportation and      
 Commerce to whom was referred the             
 following Board Bills, report that they have  
 considered the same and recommend adoption.   
           Board Bill No. 273                  
      An Ordinance recommended and             
 approved by the Airport Commission, the       
 Board of Public Service, and the Board of     
 Estimate and Apportionment, authorizing and   
 establishing a multi-year public works and    
 improvement program at Lambert-St. Louis          
 International Airport(R) (the "Airport")          
 providing for an Airport Planning Project (the    
 "Project") consisting of, but not limited to      
 airspace analysis studies, the preparation of     
 an Airport Layout Plan, terminal and facilities   
 studies, environmental mitigation planning        
 projects, legal services, and other related       
 aviation support planning projects or             
 programs which are necessary for the              
 Airport's development, such authorized work       
 consisting of, but not limited to planning,       
 designing, programming, technical advice and      
 assistance, consulting services, legal services,  
 surveys, mapping, engineering and                 
 architectural services, CADD services, airport    
 NAVID, operational, and facilities plans,         
 airport organizational, management, and           
 certification studies, title searches, appraisals,
 and other related work or cost for a total        
 estimated cost of One Million Three Hundred       
 Seventy       Five       Thousand Dollars         
 ($1,375,000.00); authorizing an initial           
 appropriation of One Million Dollars              
 ($1,000,000.00) from the Airport                  
 Development Fund established under                
 Ordinance 59286, Section 13, approved             
 October 26, 1984, to be expended for the          
 payment of costs for work or services             
 authorized herein and providing for the receipt   
 of supplemental appropriations when               
 authorized by ordinance into this Ordinance,      
 as funds become available to continue the         
 Project; authorizing the Board of Public Service  
 with the advice, consent and approval of the      
 Director of Airports to let contracts, purchase   
 materials and equipment, employ labor, pay        
 salaries, wages, fees, retain consultant, and     
 otherwise provide for the Project and the work    
 and services authorized herein; providing that    
 any contract let hereunder, shall be subject to   
 the Charter of the City of St. Louis and any      
 Missouri State laws or regulations applicable     
 thereto; authorizing and directing the            
 Comptroller of the City of St. Louis to draw      
 warrants for the payment of expenses              
 authorized herein; authorizing the Director of    
 Airports to make such applications and            
 provide such data and to take whatever action     
 necessary to seek federal funds under the         
 Airport Improvement Program, the Passenger        
 Facilities Charge Program, or other federal,      
 state or local programs for which these           
 authorized costs or expenditures might qualify    
 and authorizing the deposit of such funds into    
 this Ordinance for the purpose of reimbursing     
 in part the costs of the Project; directing that  
 all contracts let under the authority of this     
 Ordinance be in compliance with all applicable    
 minority and women or disadvantaged               
 business enterprise requirements and in           
 compliance with all applicable federal, state     
 and local laws, ordinances, regulations, court    
 decisions and executive orders relating to equal  
employment opportunity; containing a              
severability clause; and containing an            
emergency clause.                                 
         Board Bill No. 284                       
       (Committee Substitute)                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board       
of Public Service declaring the public necessity  
of acquiring sites in accordance with and         
pursuant to the terms and conditions of           
Ordinance No. 66775, which approved an            
Intergovernmental Agreement, in the City of       
St. Louis; and authorized the acquisition of      
real property as hereinafter described, either    
by purchase or condemnation; and containing       
an emergency clause.                              
     Alderwoman Young                             
     Chairman of the Committee                    
      Mr. Wessels of the Committee on             
Housing, Urban Development and Zoning             
submitted the following report which was          
read.                                             
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
October 21, 2005.                                 
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Housing, Urban             
Development and Zoning to whom was                
referred the following Board Bills, report that   
they have considered the same and recommend       
adoption.                                         
           Board Bill No. 116                     
     An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No.         
66235, which ordinance authorized and             
directed the issuance of certain tax increment    
revenue obligations of the City of St. Louis,     
Missouri, for the purpose of financing certain    
projects within the Cupples Station               
Redevelopment Project Area; ratifying the         
authorization and approval of a certain Trust     
Indenture and dated as of July 1, 2003, by        
Ordinance No. 65513; and authorizing and          
approving an Amended and Restated Trust           
Indenture securing all tax increment revenue      
obligations issued in connection with such        
Redevelopment Area.                               
           Board Bill No. 230                     
      An      ordinance       approving        a  
Redevelopment Plan for 721 Olive Street Area      
("Area") after finding that the Area is blighted  
as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised       
Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the      
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
inclusive), containing a description of the       
boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis  
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Exhibit "A", finding that               
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
 the City; approving the Plan dated July 26,         
 2005 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated herein     
 by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section        
 99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial  
 plan for the development of the Area which          
 affords maximum opportunity for                     
 development of the Area by private enterprise;      
 finding that no property in the Area may be         
 acquired by the Land Clearance for                  
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.          
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of              
 eminent domain; finding that the property           
 within the Area is occupied and the                 
 Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating     
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of     
 implementation of the Plan; finding that            
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the        
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with           
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available     
 fifteen (15) year real estate tax abatement; and    
 pledging cooperation of the Board of                
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,          
 departments, boards and agencies of the City        
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective       
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.        
            Board Bill No. 246                       
       An     ordinance        approving        a    
 Redevelopment Plan for the 7001-27, 7024            
 Pennsylvania, 210 Quincy St, & 210 Blow             
 St. Area ("Area") after finding that the            
 Amended Area is blighted as defined in Section      
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,         
 2000, as amended, (the "Statute" being              
 Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),               
 containing a description of the boundaries of       
 said Area in the City of St. Louis ("City"),        
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as          
 Exhibit "A", finding that redevelopment and         
 rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of    
 the public health, safety, morals and general       
 welfare of the people of the City; approving        
 the Amended Plan dated July 26, 2005 for the        
 Area ("Plan"), incorporated herein by attached      
 Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;            
 finding that there is a feasible financial plan     
 for the development of the Area which affords       
 maximum opportunity for development of the          
 Area by private enterprise; finding that no         
 property in the Area may be acquired by the         
 Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority          
 of the City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through           
 the exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;        
 finding that the property within the Area is        
 partially occupied, the Redeveloper shall be        
 responsible for relocating any eligible             
 occupants displaced as a result of                  
 implementation of the Plan; finding that            
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the        
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with           
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available     
 ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and        
 pledging cooperation of the Board of                
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,          
 departments, boards and agencies of the City    
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective   
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.    
            Board Bill No. 266                   
       An      ordinance       approving        a
 Redevelopment Plan for the 3301-11              
 Chouteau Avenue Area ("Area") after finding     
 that the Area is blighted as defined in Section 
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,     
 2000, as amended, (the "Statute" being          
 Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),           
 containing a description of the boundaries of   
 said Area in the City of St. Louis ("City"),    
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Exhibit "A", finding that redevelopment and     
 rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
 the public health, safety, morals and general   
 welfare of the people of the City; approving    
 the Plan dated September 27, 2005 for the       
 Area ("Plan"), incorporated herein by attached  
 Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;        
 finding that there is a feasible financial plan 
 for the development of the Area which affords   
 maximum opportunity for development of the      
 Area by private enterprise; finding that no     
 property in the Area may be acquired by the     
 Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority      
 of the City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through       
 the exercise of eminent domain; finding that    
 the property within the Area is partially       
 occupied, the Redeveloper shall be responsible  
 for relocating any eligible occupants displaced 
 as a result of implementation of the Plan;      
 finding that financial aid may be necessary to  
 enable the Area to be redeveloped in            
 accordance with the Plan; finding that there    
 shall be available ten (10) year real estate tax
 abatement; and pledging cooperation of the      
 Board of Aldermen and requesting various        
 officials, departments, boards and agencies of  
 the City to cooperate and to exercise their     
 respective powers in a manner consistent with   
 the Plan.                                       
            Board Bill No. 267                   
        An      ordinance        approving      a
 Redevelopment Plan for the 1601 Olive Street    
 Area ("Area") after finding that the Area is    
 blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as          
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300   
 to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description  
 of the boundaries of said Area in the City of   
 St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and         
 incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding     
 that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the    
 Area is in the interest of the public health,   
 safety, morals and general welfare of the people
 of the City; approving the Plan dated           
 September 27, 2005 for the Area ("Plan"),       
 incorporated herein by attached Exhibit "B",    
 pursuant to Section 99.430; finding that there  
 is a feasible financial plan for the development
of the Area which affords maximum                   
opportunity for development of the Area by          
private enterprise; finding that no property        
in the Area may be acquired by the Land             
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the        
City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through the              
exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;            
finding that the property within the Area is        
unoccupied, the Redeveloper shall be                
responsible for relocating any eligible             
occupants displaced as a result of                  
implementation of the Plan; finding that            
financial aid may be necessary to enable the        
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with           
the Plan; finding that there shall be available     
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and        
pledging cooperation of the Board of                
Aldermen and requesting various officials,          
departments, boards and agencies of the City        
to cooperate and to exercise their respective       
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.        
           Board Bill No. 270                       
      An      ordinance         approving        a  
Redevelopment Plan for the 600 N.                   
KingshighwayBlvd./4953-71 Washington                
Ave. Area ("Area") after finding that the Area      
is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the     
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as              
amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300       
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description      
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of       
St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and             
incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding         
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the        
Area is in the interest of the public health,       
safety, morals and general welfare of the people    
of the City; approving the Plan dated          for  
the Area ("Plan"), incorporated herein by           
attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section           
99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial  
plan for the development of the Area which          
affords maximum opportunity for                     
development of the Area by private enterprise;      
finding that no property in the Area may be         
acquired by the Land Clearance for                  
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.          
Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of              
eminent domain; finding that the property           
within the Area is occupied and the                 
Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating     
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of     
implementation of the Plan; finding that            
financial aid may be necessary to enable the        
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with           
the Plan; finding that there shall be available     
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and        
pledging cooperation of the Board of                
Aldermen and requesting various officials,          
departments, boards and agencies of the City        
to cooperate and to exercise their respective       
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.        
            Board Bill No. 276                       
       An ordinance, recommended by the              
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,                
 authorizing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis,     
 on behalf of the City, to submit a 2006 Annual      
 Plan to the United States Department of             
 Housing and Urban Development ("HUD")               
 as required to apply for funding under the          
 Federal Community Development Block                 
 Grant ("CDBG"), HOME Investment                     
 Partnerships ("HOME"), American Dream               
 Down Payment Initiative ("ADDI"),                   
 Emergency Shelter Grant ("ESG") and                 
 Housing Opportunities for Persons with              
 AIDS ("HOPWA") Entitlement Programs,                
 authorizing and directing the Mayor and the         
 Comptroller on behalf of the City to enter          
 into and execute agreements with HUD for            
 the receipt of 2006 CDBG, HOME, ADDI,               
 ESG and HOPWA funds, appropriating the              
 sum of Twenty Four Million Fifty Thousand           
 Seven Hundred Thirty Six Dollars                    
 ($24,050,736) which the City estimates will         
 be available for the 2006 CDBG Program Year,        
 appropriating the sum of Four Million Six           
 Hundred Thousand Dollars ($4,600,000)               
 which the City estimates will be available for      
 the 2006 HOME Program Year, appropriating           
 the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars             
 ($100,000) which the City estimates will be         
 available for the 2006 ADDI Program Year,           
 appropriating the sum of Nine Hundred               
 Thousand Dollars ($900,000) which the City          
 estimates will be available for the 2006 ESG        
 Program Year, appropriating the sum of One          
 Million One Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars          
 ($1,160,000) which the City estimates will          
 be available for the 2006 HOPWA Program             
 Year, authorizing and directing the Director of     
 the Community Development Administration            
 ("CDA") to contract with municipal agencies,        
 non-profit corporations and other entities, as      
 necessary for the expenditure of CDBG,              
 HOME and ADDI funds, to establish and               
 implement a lump sum drawdown procedure             
 for the purpose of financing property               
 rehabilitation activities, and/or to establish and  
 implement a procedure for providing financial       
 assistance to CDBG-eligible undertakings            
 through float loan financing, authorizing and       
 directing the Director of the Department of         
 Human Services ("DHS") to contract with             
 municipal agencies, non-profit corporations         
 and other entities, as necessary, for the           
 expenditure of ESG funds, authorizing and           
 directing the Director of Health and Hospitals      
 to contract with municipal agencies, non-           
 profit corporations and other entities, as          
 necessary for the expenditure of HOPWA              
 funds, and directing the Comptroller to issue       
 warrants thereon upon the City Treasury; and        
 containing an emergency clause.                     
      Alderman Wessels                               
      Chairman of the Committee                      
      Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,     
 Traffic and Refuse submitted the following       
 report which was read.                           
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,          
 October 21, 2005.                                
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
       The Committee on Streets, Traffic and      
 Refuse to whom was referred the following        
 Board Bills, report that they have considered    
 the same and recommend adoption.                 
            Board Bill No. 255                    
        An ordinance pertaining to street         
 vending within the Downtown Vending              
 District; amending Section Four of Ordinance     
 65061 to adjust the boundaries of the            
 Downtown Vending District and amending           
 Section Thirty of Ordinance 65061 by adding      
 a new paragraph restricting street vending       
 within a defined portion of the Downtown         
 Vending District to a person who is a            
 designated redeveloper for the South             
 Downtown Project Area or who has entered         
 into a valid vending agreement with a designated 
 redeveloper for the South Downtown Project       
 Area and containing an emergency clause.         
            Board Bill No. 262                    
       An Ordinance, recommended and              
 approved by the Board of Public Service of       
 the City of St. Louis (the "Board of Public      
 Service"), establishing a public works and       
 improvement project for the design and           
 construction of the South Seventh Streetscape    
 Project between Cerre Street to Park Avenue      
 (the "South Seventh Streetscape Project"); and   
 authorizing and directing the City of St. Louis  
 (the "City") by and through its Board of Public  
 Service to let contracts and provide for the     
 design, construction, materials, and equipment   
 for the South Seventh Streetscape Project,       
 authorizing the Board of Public Service to       
 employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,      
 fees and wages, acquire real property interests, 
 and to enter into supplemental agreements        
 with the Missouri Highway and                    
 Transportation Commission, Federal               
 Highway Administration, utilities, and other     
 governmental agencies for the South Seventh      
 Streetscape Project all in accordance with the   
 federal Transportation Equity Act for the 21st   
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with any       
 contract containing sections for: description    
 of the work, material guarantees, estimated      
 expenditure allocations, fund reversion          
 authorization, applicable federal and state      
 wage rate requirements, equal opportunity        
 provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,        
 and contract advertising statutes; requiring that
 all work provided for herein shall be carried    
 out in accordance with detailed plans and        
 specifications adopted and approved by the       
Board of Public Service before bids are          
advertised therefor; directing that all          
construction contracts let by authority of this  
Ordinance provide for federal and state          
prevailing wages requirements including          
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and     
compliance with all applicable statutes of the   
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the      
Revised Code of the City, 1994, as amended;      
requiring all specifications approved by the     
Board of Public Service and contracts let by     
authority of this Ordinance provide for          
compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders     
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/            
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when           
superseded or prohibited by federal or state     
law or regulation; requiring all advertisements  
for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject   
to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as     
amended; and appropriating the total             
estimated cost of One Million, Five Hundred      
and Twenty Thousand Dollars ($1,520,000)         
of which the City's share is Seven Hundred       
Thousand Dollars ($700,000) for the South        
Seventh Streetscape Project as follows: Eight    
Hundred and Twenty Thousand Dollars              
($820,000) from the funds in the Federal Aid     
to Urban Program Match Share Fund, also          
known as the Federal Aid to Urban Program        
Revolving Fund, established by Ordinance         
56931, Four Hundred and Fifty Thousand           
Dollars ($450,000) from the Capital              
Appreciation Bonds Fund as authorized by         
Ordinance 66756, and Two Hundred and Fifty       
Thousand Dollars ($250,000) from the One-        
Half Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;         
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of     
the City to draw warrants from time to time      
and disburse funds appropriated by this          
ordinance and to receive and disburse grant      
funds in accordance with the Transportation      
Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.        
110, et seq.) upon the signature and             
certification of vouchers by the President of    
the Board of Public Service; and containing a    
public work emergency clause.                    
           Board Bill No. 282                    
      An ordinance relating to traffic control;  
authorizing installation of and contracts        
relating to one or more Automated Traffic        
Control Systems as defined herein; and           
establishing standards for prosecution of        
violations of traffic control ordinances         
detected by Automatic Traffic Control            
Systems.                                         
     Alderman Bosley                             
     Chairman of the Committee                   
      Mr. Bosley moved to suspend the rules      
for the purpose of moving Board Bill No. 282     
to the perfection calendar.                      
     Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                    
      Carried by the following vote:             
      Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Ford-Griffin,       
 Reed, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,          
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,   
 Kennedy, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,              
 Hanrahan, Williamson, Carter and Mr.            
 President Shrewsbury. 23                        
      Noes: 0                                    
      Present: 0                                 
            REPORT OF                            
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                       
      None.                                      
            PERFECTION                           
         CONSENT CALENDAR                        
      None.                                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
      Mr. Roddy moved that Board Bill No.        
 224 before the Board for perfection, be placed  
 on the informal calendar.                       
      Mr. Reed moved that Board Bill No. 225     
 before the Board for perfection, be perfected   
 as reported out of Committee with its           
 recommendation "Do Pass".                       
      Seconded by Mr. Carter.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
       Mr. Bosley moved that Board Bill No.      
 282 before the Board for perfection, be         
 perfected as reported out of Committee with     
 its recommendation "Do Pass".                   
      Seconded by Mr. Bosley.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
       Mr. Reed moved to suspend the rules       
 for the purpose of moving the following Board   
 Bills to the third reading calendar for final   
 passage: Board Bill No. 225.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
      Carried by the following vote:             
      Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Ford-Griffin,       
 Reed, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,          
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,   
 Kennedy, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,              
 Hanrahan, Williamson, Carter and Mr.            
 President Shrewsbury. 23                        
      Noes: 0                                    
      Present: 0                                 
           THIRD READING                         
         CONSENT CALENDAR                        
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and   
 final passage of Board Bills No. 225 and 258.   
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                     
      Carried by the following vote:             
      Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Ford-Griffin,    
 Reed, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,       
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,
 Kennedy, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,           
 Hanrahan, Williamson, Carter and Mr.         
 President Shrewsbury. 23                     
      Noes: 0                                 
      Present:0                               
           Board Bill No. 225                 
      An Ordinance recommended by the         
 Planning Commission on September 7, 2005,    
 to change the zoning of property as indicated
 on the District Map, from "J" Industrial     
 District to the "I" Central Business District
 in City Block 935, so as to include the      
 described parcel of land in City Block 935;  
 and containing an emergency clause.          
           Board Bill No. 258                 
       An ordinance pertaining to the penalty 
 for violations of the Building Code; amending
 Section Four of Ordinance 66790 by           
 authorizing the code official to secure any  
 building, structure or premises which is     
 occupied without first securing a valid      
 occupancy permit, as required by law, upon   
 the issuance of a second summons for such    
 violation and containing an emergency clause.
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                   
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                    
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                       
      None.                                   
         REPORT OF THE                        
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                     
      Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,    
 St. Louis, October 21, 2005.                 
      To the President of the Board of        
 Aldermen                                     
       The Committee on Engrossed and         
 Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the      
 following Board Bills report that they have  
 considered the same and they are truly       
 enrolled.                                    
           Board Bill No. 225                 
      An Ordinance recommended by the         
 Planning Commission on September 7, 2005,    
 to change the zoning of property as indicated
 on the District Map, from "J" Industrial     
 District to the "I" Central Business District
 in City Block 935, so as to include the      
 described parcel of land in City Block 935;  
 and containing an emergency clause.          
           Board Bill No. 258                 
       An ordinance pertaining to the penalty 
 for violations of the Building Code; amending
 Section Four of Ordinance 66790 by           
 authorizing the code official to secure any  
 building, structure or premises which is     
occupied without first securing a valid          
occupancy permit, as required by law, upon       
the issuance of a second summons for such        
violation and containing an emergency clause.    
     Alderwoman Krewson                          
     Chairman of the Committee                   
     Board Bills Numbered 225 and 258 were       
read and all other business being suspended,     
Mr. Shrewsbury, in the presence of the Board     
and in open session, affixed his signature in    
accordance with the provisions of the Charter.   
     COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
       CONSENT CALENDAR                          
      President Shrewsbury introduced            
Resolution No. 164 and the Clerk was             
instructed to read same.                         
          Resolution No. 164                     
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
on October 26, 2005, Eugene G. Schaller will     
celebrate his glorious 90th Birthday; and        
     WHEREAS, Gene was born and raised           
in Covington, Kentucky, the first son of         
William and Margaret Schaller and moved with     
them to the City of St. Louis as a child; and    
      WHEREAS, after his honorable               
discharge from the United States Army after      
World War II, Gene returned to St. Louis where   
he enrolled in St. Louis University and          
eventually began his professional career in the  
field of real estate and insurance; and          
     WHEREAS, for more than 50 years             
Gene has served property owners in the           
Carondelet Neighborhood as a realtor and is      
an active participant in many community          
based organizations including the Carondelet     
Historical Society, South Broadway               
Merchants Association, the Carondelet            
Community Corporation and the Carondelet         
Blow Community Education Center; and             
      WHEREAS, throughout his life Mr.           
Schaller has enjoyed the love and support of     
his late wife, Edna; his children, Mary and      
Jeanne; his grandchildren, Christopher and       
Julie and his many friends; and                  
      WHEREAS, Mr. Schaller is an                
outstanding member of our community and          
we thank him for his many contributions to       
the residents of the Carondelet Neighborhood     
and to all of our citizens;                      
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to congratulate Eugene G.          
Schaller on the occasion of his 90th Birthday    
and we wish him continued peace, good health     
and happiness and we further direct the Clerk    
of this Board to spread a copy of this           
Resolution across the minutes of these           
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that it may be presented to      
 our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 21st day of October, 2005      
 by:                                              
 Honorable Matthew Villa, Alderman 11th Ward      
 Honorable Alfred Wessels, Alderman 13th Ward     
      Unanimous consent having been               
 obtained Resolution No. 164 stood                
 considered.                                      
       President Shrewsbury moved that            
 Resolution No. 164 be adopted, at this meeting   
 of the Board.                                    
       Seconded by Mr. Villa.                     
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
             FIRST READING                        
            OF RESOLUTIONS                        
       President Shrewsbury introduced            
 Resolution No. 163 and the Clerk was             
 instructed to read same.                         
            Resolution No. 163                    
       WHEREAS, lesbian, gay, and bisexual        
 Americans have served honorably in the           
 Armed Forces throughout United States            
 history and continue to serve with distinction   
 on active duty, including in Iraq and            
 Afghanistan; and                                 
       WHEREAS, the Armed Forces are              
 weakened when competent and qualified            
 individuals are involuntarily discharged solely  
 by reason of their sexual orientation; and       
      WHEREAS, in 1993, Congress passed           
 and the President signed legislation the         
 National Defense Authorization Act of 1994       
 (Public Law 103-160), that created the "Don't    
 Ask, Don't Tell" policy; and                     
       WHEREAS, the Armed Forces are              
 currently unable to meet their own recruiting    
 goals, while at the same time they are           
 preventing highly qualified and patriotic gay,   
 lesbian, and bisexual Americans from serving     
 solely because of their sexual orientation; and  
       WHEREAS, America's closest allies,         
 including the United Kingdom, Canada,            
 Australia, and Israel, allow lesbian, gay, and   
 bisexual servicemembers to serve openly in       
 their militaries, and the United Kingdom now     
 actively recruits these servicemembers, and      
       WHEREAS, the Department of                 
 Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of         
 Investigation, the Defense Intelligence Agency,  
 the National Security Agency, the Central        
 Intelligence Agency, and other federal           
 departments handling national security allow     
 their lesbian, gay and bisexual personnel to     
 serve openly; and                                
       WHEREAS, the majority of American        
 citizens support keeping trained and skilled   
 openly gay, lesbian, and bisexual service      
 members in the military;                       
       NOW THEREFOR BE IT                       
 RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen of         
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri hereby         
 supports H.R. 1059, the Military Readiness     
 Act of 2005, that will replace the current     
 "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy with a policy   
 of nondiscrimination based on sexual           
 orientation, and that the Board of Aldermen    
 of the City of St. Louis, Missouri respectfully
 urges the Congress to pass and the President   
 to sign the Military Readiness Enhancement     
 Act of 2005 (H.R. 1059), thereby ending the    
 discriminatory federal policy of "Don't Ask,   
 Don't Tell and be it further resolved that we  
 shall transmit copies of this resolution to the
 President of the United States and to each     
 Senator and Representative in the United       
 States Congress.                               
 Introduced on the 21st day of October, 2005,   
 by:                                            
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President       
 of the Board of Aldermen                       
 Honorable O.L. Shelton, Alderman 4th Ward      
 Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward  
      Unanimous consent having been             
 obtained Resolution No. 163 stood              
 considered.                                    
       President Shrewsbury moved that          
 Resolution No. 163 be adopted, at this meeting 
 of the Board.                                  
       Seconded by Mr. Shelton.                 
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
       President Shrewsbury introduced          
 Resolution No. 165 and requested that it be    
 assigned to the Public Utilities Committee for 
 hearing.                                       
            Resolution No. 165                  
      Whereas, Laclede Gas Company is the       
 provider of natural gas for both residential   
 and commercial consumers in St. Louis; and     
      Whereas, Laclede Gas Company has a        
 monopoly on providing said natural gas service 
 to consumers in St. Louis City; and            
        Whereas, Laclede Gas Company has,       
 in the past, been more focused on customer     
 service, as demonstrated by its safety         
 inspections, annual reads, testing of meters,  
 etc.; and                                      
      Whereas, There have been various          
 explosions in St. Louis City, which were       
 caused by faulty natural gas facilities; and   
      Whereas, Laclede Gas employees have       
 frequently detected potentially dangerous gas  
appliances while making safety inspections,       
annual reads, testing of meters, etc.; and        
     Whereas, Laclede Gas Company has             
recently requested that the Missouri Public       
Service Commission relieve Laclede Gas            
Company of some of its obligations to conduct     
inspections, perform meter sampling, etc.; and    
     Whereas, these proposed changes will         
harm consumers by reducing annual                 
inspections, increasing the frequency of          
estimated readings, etc.; and                     
     Whereas, these proposed changes will         
negatively affect the safety of consumers, their  
homes and businesses and the overall              
community of St. Louis City,                      
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of                
Aldermen that we oppose the regulatory            
changes that Laclede Gas has sought before        
the Missouri Public Service Commission and        
we direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a     
copy of this resolution across the minutes of     
these proceedings and to further prepare a        
commemorative copy to the end that it may         
be presented to our honorees at a time and        
place deemed appropriate by the sponsor.          
Introduced on the 21st day of October 2005        
by:                                               
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President          
of the Board of Aldermen                          
           SECOND READING                         
           OF RESOLUTIONS                         
     None.                                        
       MISCELLANEOUS AND                          
       UNFINISHED BUSINESS                        
     None.                                        
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                          
     None.                                        
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                         
     Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the              
following aldermen due to their necessary         
absence: Mr. Troupe, Ms.Young, Mr.                
McMillan and Ms. Krewson.                         
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                       
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
             ADJOURNMENT                          
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under          
rules to return October 28, 2005.                 
     Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                     
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
     Respectfully submitted,                      
     Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk                  
     Board of Aldermen                            
   BOARD OF                                          
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                      
           REGULAR MEETING                           
    St. Louis, MO - October 25, 2005                 
     Present: Directors Visintainer, Suelmann,       
 Siedhoff, Moore, Simon and President                
 Melton                                              
      Absent: Director Bess. (excused)               
      Request of the Director of Parks,              
 Recreation and Forestry to be excused from          
 the Regular Meeting of October 25, 2005             
 designating Mr. Daniel Skillman to act in his       
 behalf was received and leave of absence            
 granted.                                            
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of              
 October 18, 2005 were unanimously                   
 approved.                                           
      The following documents were referred          
 by the Secretary:                                   
             October 20, 2005                        
       To the Directors of Public Utilities and      
 Streets: 110593, Southwestern Bell Telephone        
 Co., place 1 4" PVC from manhole on 18th            
 just south of Dr. Martin Luther King and 18th.      
       To the Directors of Public Utilities and      
 Public Safety:110594, Kennedy Associates,           
 Inc., subdivide at O'Fallon, 10th, Cass, and        
 9th in C.B. 578 and 586, 110595, Eichelberger       
 Realty, boundary adjustment at 5821-25              
 Gravois in C.B. 5332-E, 110596, SKP                 
 Properties, LLC, subdivide at 6049 Maple in         
 C.B. 3829.                                          
       To the Directors of Health and Hospitals      
 and Public Safety:110597, Saddler Residential       
 Care Facility II, Inc., conduct a residential care  
 facility at 730 Hodiamont.                          
             October 24, 2005                        
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and       
 Streets:110614, SBC, place a 50 pair cable          
 from utility pole at 3524 Olive, trench 24"         
 deep approx. 40' long from pole to rear of          
 3547 Olive.                                         
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and       
 Public Safety:110615, Maglio Investments LP,        
 consolidate 3 parcels into one at 3929-31,          
 3125-27 and 3119-23 Watson, 110616, Robert          
 Brothers Properties, LLC, boundary                  
 adjustment and subdivide at 3916 and 3920           
 San Francisco in C.B. 5464, 110617, Chris           
 Roberts, resubdivide at Jefferson and Armand        
 in C.B. 1382.                                       
       To the Director of Streets:110618,            
 Tower Grove Manor, encroach with banners            
 at 25 locations in the 2700 block of Grand.         
       To the Directors of Health and Hospitals 
 and Public Safety:110232, New Northside        
 Child Development Center, amend to conduct     
 day care center at 5939 Goodfellow to 54       
 children; 4-5 yrs. 28 children, 6 -12 yrs. 26  
 children.                                      
                 LETTINGS                       
      Two sealed proposals for the public       
 work advertised under Letting No. 8289 -       
 Surface Transportation Program (STP) Traffic   
 Signal System Improvement Plan, Central        
 Business District were received, publicly      
 opened, read and referred to the President.    
      Hearings were held on the following       
 matters:                                       
                 HEARINGS                       
      Hearing No. 8064 - Utopia Salon and       
 Spa, operate massage and/or public bath        
 establishment at 4484 West Pine ordered        
 approved.                                      
       Communications, reports, recommenda-     
 tions and documents were submitted by Board    
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:   
                PRESIDENT                       
       Addendum No. 1 to the plans and          
 specifications for Letting No. 8288 -          
 Residential Sound Insulation Program Part      
 XXXIII at Lambert approved and made part       
 of the original plans.                         
       Missouri Highways and Transportation     
 Commission Municipal Agreement by and          
 between the City of St. Louis and the          
 Missouri Highways and Transportation           
 Commission for public improvement              
 designated at Route I-64, St. Louis City, Mob  
 No. J611246 consisting of constructing an      
 outer road to I-64 (b/t 15th and 18th) approved
 and President authorized to execute same.      
      Board declared as emergency work for      
 Design/Build Services for New Picnic           
 Pavilion, O'Fallon Park.                       
        DIRECTORS OF                            
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                   
       Application No. 110560, Union Electric   
 d/b/a AmerenUE, break into existing duct and   
 divert duct over to existing duct bank and     
 install conduit on east side of Grand and s/e  
 corner of Grand and alley north of Grand,      
 ordered approved, subject to certain           
 conditions.                                    
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      5 subdivisions ordered approved, as       
 follows, subject to certain conditions:110595, 
 Eichelberger Realty, 5821-25 Gravois, 110615,  
 Maglio Investments LP, 3929-31, 3125-27 and    
 3119-23 Watson, 110583, Owen                   
 Development, 3641 and 3645 Olive in C.B.       
2287, 110403, Elizab LC, 2753-55 Accomac             
in C.B. 1353, 110587, Vera Whirley, 2723 and         
2719-21 Rutger.                                      
    DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                        
     16 Conditional Use Permits ordered              
approved, as submitted by the Hearing                
Officer, per Board Order No. 766.                    
     The following documents were not listed         
on the Posted Agenda: 269038-42.                     
     Adjourned to meet Tuesday, November             
1, 2005 at 1:45 P.M.                                 
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.           
                  President                          
ATTEST:                                              
                  Darlene A. Plump                   
                  Secretary                          
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
     A public hearing will be held by the            
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on                  
Wednesday, November 2, 2005, in Room 208             
City Hall to consider the following:                 
     APPEAL #8455 - Hearing for Eisenhoffer          
Auto Sales to consider the revocation of a use       
variance for an occupancy permit, with               
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to             
operate an auto repair business (expanding           
current used auto sales business with the same       
conditions) at 3429 Watson Rd. WARD 23               
#AO336586-05 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-                   
hood Commercial District                             
      APPEAL #8525 - Appeal filed by St.             
Louis Corner Market, from the determination          
of the Board of Public Service in the denial of      
an occupancy permit authorizing the                  
Appellant to operate a meat/ produce / grocery       
/deli/grill with outside seating at 4445             
Morganford. WARD 14 #AO339701-05                     
ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial                  
District                                             
      APPEAL #8526 - Appeal filed by                 
Demond Signs Inc, from the determination of          
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
building permit authorizing the Appellant to         
install one projecting sign on a canopy per          
plans (illuminated) at 3914 Lindell Blvd.            
WARD 17 #AB348631-05 ZONE: "H" -                     
Area Commercial                                      
      APPEAL #8527 - Appeal filed by Belas           
Arts, from the determination of the Building         
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy           
permit authorizing the Appellant to have a           
full drink restaurant, office, retail sales of art,  
and restaurant wholesale items at 1854 Russell.      
WARD 7 #AO351831-05 ZONE: "C" -                      
Multiple Family Dwelling District                    
      APPEAL #8528 - Appeal filed by                
 Ultimate Car Care & Service, from the              
 determination of the Building Commissioner         
 in the denial of an occupancy permit               
 authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto       
 detailing and wash business at 3210 S.             
 Compton. WARD 20 #AO348722-05                      
 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial                
 District                                           
      In accordance with the provisions of          
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.          
     By authority of the Board of                   
 Adjustment.                                        
      E. Smoot, Chairman                            
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
       The Building Division is seeking a           
 contract for a Court Reporter to record            
 proceedings of the Board of Adjustment and         
 Board of Building Appeals. Must submit             
 written Statement of Interest and                  
 Qualifications. Applicants must be certified       
 and in good standing with the Missouri Board       
 of Certified Court Reporter Examiners; must        
 have at least three years experience in recording  
 and transcribing administrative proceedings;       
 must submit three letters of reference.            
      For more information, contact Charlene        
 Deeken in the Director of Public Safety's          
 Office at 622-3391. Closing date is 11/4/05 at     
 5:00 p.m.                                          
 INVITATION TO BID                                  
  Board of Police Commissioners                     
  Metropolitan Police Department                    
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                    
   Bid # 650-000643 - Property Envelope             
       Sealed bids for the above will be received   
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
 Department, Office of the Director of              
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
 local time, Friday, Novemberr 11, 2005 when        
 they will be opened publicly and announced.        
       Official bid forms on which bids must        
 be submitted may be obtained from the Office       
 of the Director of Purchasing by prospective       
 bidders upon request in person or by               
 telephone during regular business hours.           
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police               
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan     
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover  
 any damages resulting from termination.         
       The Board of Police Commissioners         
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and 
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also      
 reserves the right to consider criteria other   
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.    
 Among other factors, the Board will consider    
 the location of the business, minority interest 
 in the business, prior performance and the bid  
 submitted in relation to the needs of the       
 St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.       
       Bidders are hereby advised that the       
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and      
 associated Regulations could apply to the       
 service for which bids are being sought herein. 
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific   
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform   
 work pursuant to a contract executed between    
 the successful bidder and the City must be      
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage    
 rates and if rates are adjusted during term of  
 the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made. 
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage        
 Acknowledgment            and     Acceptance    
 Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit    
 this Declaration with the bid will result in    
 rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's     
 failure to comply with the contract provisions  
 related to the Living Wage Ordinance may        
 result in termination of the contract and the   
 imposition of additional penalties as set for in
 the Ordinance and Regulations.                  
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations   
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,  
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at           
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.          
      CAROL SHEPARD                              
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                     
      PHONE # 314-444-5608                       
  PUBLIC SALE OF                                 
 SURPLUS PROPERTY                                
  Board of Police Commissioners                  
  Metropolitan Police Department                 
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
          SURPLUS PROPERTY -                     
         Equipment, Furniture,                   
     Computer Equipment & Monitors               
      Sealed bids for the above will be received 
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department, Office of the Director of           
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.     
local time, Friday, Novemberr 11, 2005 when        
they will be opened publicly and announced.        
      Official bid forms on which bids must        
be submitted may be obtained from the Office       
of the Director of Purchasing by prospective       
bidders upon request in person or by               
telephone during regular business hours.           
      Contractor shall not discriminate in         
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
any employee or applicant for employment           
because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
contract, and the Board of Police                  
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
any damages resulting from termination.            
      The Board of Police Commissioners            
reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
reserves the right to consider criteria other      
than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
Among other factors, the Board will consider       
the location of the business, minority interest    
in the business, prior performance and the bid     
submitted in relation to the needs of the          
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.          
     CAROL SHEPARD                                 
     DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                        
     PHONE # 314-444-5608                          
   PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
         NOTICE OF ELECTION                        
Notice is hereby given by the Board of             
Election Commissioners for the City of St.         
Louis, State of Missouri, that a Special           
Election will be held at the designated polling    
place for each precinct in the City of St. Louis,  
State of Missouri, on Tuesday, November 8,         
2005. The polls will be open between the           
hours of 6:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. for the           
purpose of citywide voting on Proposition          
No. 1, and for the registered voters in the        
Locust Central Business District to vote on        
Proposition I.                                     
THE OFFICIAL BALLOT FOR THE                        
ELECTION WILL BE IN SUBSTAN-                       
TIALLY THE FOLLOWING FORM:                         
          OFFICIAL BALLOT                          
         SPECIAL ELECTION                          
     CITY OF ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI                   
     TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005                     
PROPOSITION NO. 1 - CITY OF ST.                    
LOUIS BONDS                                        
Shall the following be adopted:                    
 Proposition to issue bonds of the City of St.      
 Louis, Missouri in an amount not to exceed         
 Thirteen Million Dollars ($13,000,000.00) for      
 the purpose of funding a portion of the cost       
 of replacing, improving, and maintaining the       
 City of St. Louis radio system used by the St.     
 Louis Police Department, Fire Department,          
 the Emergency Medical Services, and other          
 City departments; and, for the purpose of          
 funding a portion of the costs of reconstructing,  
 repairing and improving major streets, bridges,    
 and the flood wall, where Federal funding is       
 available and local funding is required.           
 YES (FOR THE PROPOSITION)                 7        
 NO (AGAINST THE PROPOSITION) 8                     
 PROPOSITION I - LOCUST CENTRAL                     
 BUSINESS DISTRICT                                  
 Shall the tax of $.85 per $100.00 valuation be     
 continued on all real property, including that     
 property used exclusively or partially for         
 residential purposes located in the Locust         
 Central Business District as defined in            
 Ordinance No. 58728 approved on December           
 23, 1982, as amended by Ordinance No.              
 59248 approved on September 10, 1984 and           
 Ordinance No. 60530 approved on October            
 30, 1987 and Ordinance No. 65133 approved          
 on January 18, 2001, for the purposes as set       
 forth in Ordinance No. 58728?                      
 YES (FOR THE PROPOSITION)                 13       
 NO (AGAINST THE PROPOSITION) 14                    
  INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: If you are                
 in favor of a proposition, punch through the       
 ballot card by inserting the punching tool into    
 the hole to the right of the number for the        
 word "YES." If you are against a proposition,      
 punch through the ballot card by inserting the     
 punching tool into the hole to the right of the    
 number for the word "NO."                          
 YOU HAVE NOW COMPLETED VOTING.                     
 REMOVE BALLOT CARD, FOLD AT                        
 PERFORATION, AND INSERT INTO THE                   
 BALLOT BOX AT THE DIRECTION OF                     
 THE ELECTION OFFICIAL.                             
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned,               
 composing the Board of Election                    
 Commissioners for the City of St. Louis, State     
 of Missouri, have caused this notice to be         
 signed and the official seal of the office to be   
 affixed at the office of the Board in St. Louis,   
 Missouri, this 6th day of October, 2005.           
             BOARD OF                               
      ELECTION COMMISSIONERS                        
         EDWARD R. MARTIN, JR.                      
            Chairman/Member                         
  ANGELETTA McCORMICK FRANKS                        
            Member                                  
 (Seal) Attest: CLARENCE E. DULA                  
               Acting Secretary/Member            
 Pursuant to Ordinance No. 66776 of the City      
 of St. Louis, Missouri, approved the 1st day     
 of August, 2005, I the undersigned Register      
 of said City have hereunto set my hand under     
 the seal of said City, in the City of St. Louis, 
 State of Missouri, as of the 18th day of October,
 2005.                                            
 PARRIE L. MAY                                    
 City Register                                    
 (Seal)                                           
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
          UNANIMOUS PETITION OF                   
            PROPERTY OWNERS                       
   The Undersigned entities constitute all the    
 owners of real property within the area          
 described on Exhibit A hereto, being the area    
 of the Highlands Transportation                  
 Development District, and hereby                 
 unanimously approves the following               
 measures:                                        
       The Highlands Transportation               
 Development District shall impose a              
 transportation development district-wide         
 sales tax at the rate of up to one percent (1%)  
 for a period of not to exceed forty (40) years   
 from the date on which such tax is first         
 imposed.                                         
 STATE OF MISSOURI            )                   
                              ) SS                
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS            )                   
       On this 22nd day of July, 2005, before     
 me appeared Steven A. Brown, to me               
 personally known, who, being by me duly          
 sworn, did say that he is the Authorized         
 Representative of HIGHLAND SOUTH                 
 PLAT II, L.L.C., a Missouri limited liability    
 company, that said instrument was signed on      
 behalf of said limited liability company and     
 that this instrument to be the free act and      
 deed of said limited liability company.          
       IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have               
 hereunto set my hand and affixed my official     
 seal in the County and State aforesaid, the      
day and year first above written.                
My Commission Expires: 3-26-08                   
STATE OF MISSOURI           )                    
                            ) SS                 
CITY OF ST. LOUIS           )                    
      On this 22nd day of July, 2005, before     
me appeared STEVEN A. BROWN, to me               
personally known, who, being by me duly          
sworn, did say that he is the as Manager of      
HIGHLAND HOTEL, LLC, a Missouri                  
liability company, that said instrument was      
signed on behalf of said limited liability       
company and that this instrument to be the       
free act and deed of said limited liability      
company.                                         
      IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have               
hereunto set my hand and affixed my official     
seal in the County and State aforesaid, the      
day and year first above written.                
My Commission Expires: 3-26-08                   
                  Exhibit A                      
              Legal Description                  
          of the District Boundaries             
Lot 7 of Resubdivision of Lot 5B of the          
Resubdivision of Lot 4 and Lot 5 of Highlands    
at Forest Park, a subdivision according to the   
plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 09212004      
Page 0030 of the Recorder of Deeds Office in     
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, and being       
located in Block 4002 of the City of St. Louis,  
Missouri.                                        
Less and excepting the air space (and all        
improvements therein) located above the          
horizontal plane located at 523.00 feet above    
sea level over the poperty described below.      
A tract of land being part of Lot 7 of           
Resubdivision of Lot 5B of the Resubdivision     
of Lot 4 and Lot 5 of Highlands at Forest        
Park, a subdivision according to the plat        
 thereof recorded in Plat Book 09212004 Page         
 0030 of the Recorder of Deeds Office in the         
 City of St. Louis, Missouri, and being located      
 in Block 4002 of the City of St. Louis,             
 Missouri, and being more particularly               
 described as follows:                               
 Commencing at the Southeast corner of above         
 said Lot 7; thence North 83 degrees 00 minutes      
 15 seconds West along the Southerly line of         
 above said Lot 7 a distrance of 6.59 feet; thence   
 departing last said Southerly line North 06         
 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds East 1.00 feet        
 to the POINT OF BEGINNING of the herein             
 described tract; thence North 83 degrees 00         
 minutes 15 seconds West 181.50 feet; thence         
 North 06 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds East         
 309.21 feet; thence South 83 degrees 00             
 minutes 15 seconds East 181.50 feet; thence         
 South 06 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds West         
 309.21 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING               
 and containing 56,122 square feet or 1.288          
 acres more or less.                                 
                 CERTIFICATE                         
       I, the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the      
 City of St. Louis, State of Missouri, hereby        
 certify that on this 16th day of September,         
 2005, pursuant to Section 238.216 of the            
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended,           
 the attached Unanimous Petition of Property         
 Owners has been submitted to this office and        
 I have verified the authenticity of all signatures  
 thereon based upon their notarized signatures       
 as they appear on this Unanimous Petition of        
 Property Owners. The filing of said Petition        
 shall constitute an election under Section          
 238.200 to 238.275 of the Revised Statutes          
 of Missouri, as amended the results of which        
 I have entered upon the records of the Circuit      
 Court of the City of St. Louis, State of            
 Missouri.                                           
 SEAL                                                
 Clerk of Circuit Clerk                              
 St. Louis, Missouri                                 
  DEPARTMENT                                         
 OF PERSONNEL                                        
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                          
      The City of St. Louis, Department of           
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,            
 announces competitive Civil Service                 
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal     
 Service.                                            
 _____________________________________               
       The last date for filing an application for   
 the following examination is NOVEMBER 4,            
 2005.                                               
            AIRFIELD PAINTER/                                            
          MAINTENANCE WORKER                                             
   (Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R))                          
                            Prom. 1111                                   
      (PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATION                                           
          OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                                         
                   EMPLOYEES ONLY)                                       
  $33,254 to $46,384 (Annual Salary Range)                               
 ________________________________________________________________________
       The last date for filing an application for                       
 the following examination is NOVEMBER 10,                               
 2005.                                                                   
                 BUDGET ANALYST                                          
              Prom./O.C. 1127                                            
  $38,168 to $57,252 (Annual Salary Range)                               
 _____________________________________                                   
       Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social                           
 Security, and Employee Retirement System                                
 Benefits privileges are provided in addition to                         
 salary.                                                                 
       Application forms and further                                     
 information concerning duties of positions,                             
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative                        
 weights of examination components, and                                  
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the                        
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114                             
 Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO                                   
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the                             
 Internet. Visit the city web site at                                    
 www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with                               
 the City.                                                               
                          Richard R. Frank                               
                          Director                                       
 October 26, 2005                                                        
 NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                                                   
      CITY ORDINANCE requires that any                                   
 individual or company who performs work                                 
 within the City limits must obtain a Business                           
 License. This would also apply to businesses                            
 who employ sales or delivery personnel to                               
 come into the City. Contracts requiring work                            
 to be performed in the City will NOT be                                 
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.                                       
 Please contact the License Collector,                                   
 Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,                                
 63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may                                  
 also refer to our on-line site at                                       
 www.stlouiscity.com.                                                    
 ST. LOUIS LIVING                                                        
 WAGE ORDINANCE                                                          
    LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                                             
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that                            
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597                              
 and associated Regulations apply to the                                 
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial                            
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are                            
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
contract executed between the successful          
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
adjusted during the term of the contract          
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
[proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
to submit this Declaration with the bid           
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
[proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
[proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
provisions related to the Living Wage             
Ordinance may result in termination of the        
contract and the imposition of additional         
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
Regulations.                                      
     Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
are available upon request from                   
Mr. Larry Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or         
can be accessed at http://www.stlouiscity.        
com/living wage.                                  
   SUPPLY                                         
COMMISSIONER                                      
Office of the Supply Commissioner,                
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,          
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,               
November 1, 2005 - ADVERTISED BIDS                
will be received by the undersigned to be         
opened at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for   
the items listed below on the dates specified.    
        Notice to All Suppliers                   
      NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
employment practices that are in accordance       
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis      
and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated       
there-under to the end that all Contractors       
and suppliers of materials and services will      
offer equal opportunity for employment and        
job advancement to blacks and other minority      
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.        
            Requesting a Bid                      
To have a bid mailed or faxed to you, please      
contact the Supply Commissioner's office at       
(314) 622-4580.                                   
  TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2005                      
         LEGAL SIZE                               
   3 DRAWER FILE CABINETS                         
for furnishing the Circuit Court per Req. 4.      
          3" TURBO TYPE,                       
       CLASS 2 WATER METER                     
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.    
 1275.                                         
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
          3" TURBO TYPE,                       
       CLASS 2 WATER METER                     
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.    
 1275.                                         
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
