       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
   Board of                       
   Aldermen                       
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2006-2007                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
      Friday, May 5, 2006.        
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers, May 5, 2006.                      
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Flowers,  
 Bosley, Ford-Griffin, Shelton, Reed, Young, 
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,   
 Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, 
 Kennedy, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,          
 Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,   
 Krewson and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 26    
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
      None.                                  
           HONORED GUEST                     
      APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
      OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for April 17 and 18, 2006.          
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      None.                                  
          Office of the Mayor                   
City of St. Louis                               
Room 200 City Hall                              
1200 Market Street                              
St. Louis, MO 63103                             
(314) 622-3201                                  
Fax (314) 622-4061                              
May 3, 2006                                     
Honorable Board of Aldermen                     
Room 230 City Hall                              
St. Louis, MO 63103                             
Dear Members of the Board:                      
     I have the pleasure to submit to your      
Honorable Board the following individual for    
appointment to the Cherokee-Lemp Special        
Business District:                              
     The appointment of Mr. Larry D.            
Weitkemper, who resides at 2843 A Accomac,      
63104, and who will represent th renters of     
the District. His term will expire on December  
31, 2009, replacing Mr. Don Wiskamp.            
    May I ask for your Honorable Board's        
favorable consideration of these                
appointments.                                   
     Sincerely,                                 
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                            
     Mayor                                      
     Mr. Ortmann moved to approve the           
following appointment to the Cherokee-Lemp      
Special Business District: Larry D.             
Weitkemper.                                     
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                      
     None.                                      
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION -                    
    INFORMAL CALENDAR                           
     None.                                      
   BOARD BILLS FOR THIRD                        
READING - INFORMAL CALENDAR                     
     None.                                      
           RESOLUTIONS                          
      - INFORMAL CALENDER                       
     None.                                      
    FIRST READING OF BOARD                      
             BILLS                              
Board Member Roddy introduced by request:       
           Board Bill No. 44                    
     An ordinance recommended by the Board      
of Estimate and Apportionment and the           
Parking Commission of the City of St. Louis     
and authorizing and directing the City, acting  
through the Treasurer of the City in his        
capacity as supervisor of parking meters, to    
issue Subordinated Parking Revenue Bonds        
 in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed    
 $3,533,000 at any time outstanding; setting       
 forth certain terms and conditions for such       
 bonds; approving and authorizing the              
 execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase       
 Agreement authorizing a future advance Deed       
 of Trust and Security Agreement; and              
 authorizing the taking of further actions with    
 respect thereto; authorizing the taking of other  
 actions, approval and execution of other          
 documents as necessary or desirable to carry      
 out and comply with the intent hereof; and        
 containing severability and emergency clauses.    
 Board Member Roddy introduced by request:         
             Board Bill No. 45                     
        An ordinance, authorizing and directing    
 the Treasurer of the City of St. Louis, acting    
 in his capacity as supervisor of parking meters   
 ("Treasurer") to sell to Opus NWR                 
 Development LLC ("Opus") rights to build a        
 retail parcel and a condominium parcel on land    
 belonging to the treasurer in City Block 3884;    
 and authorizing the treasurer and other City      
 officials to enter into a Declaration of          
 Reciprocal Easements, covenants, conditions       
 and restrictions and such other documents as      
 many be necessary to develop the property         
 as a mixed Usp Public Parking Facility, Retail    
 and Condominium Development, and                  
 containing a severability clause and an           
 emergency clause.                                 
 Board Member Roddy introduced by request:         
             Board Bill No. 46                     
       An ordinance amending Ordinance No.         
 66983 by changing the boundary of the Park        
 East Lofts Planned Unit Development District      
 approved by said ordinance by adding              
 approximately 475 square feet to said planned     
 unit development district.                        
 Board Members Bosley, Ortmann, Gregali            
 and Florida introduced by request:                
             Board Bill No. 47                     
      An ordinance submitting to the qualified     
 voters of the City of St. Louis a non-binding     
 preferential vote as authorized by Article II     
 Section 9 of the Charter of the City of St.       
 Louis to assist the Missouri General              
 Assembly in their deliberations regarding the     
 residency requirement for civilian employees      
 and commissioned police officers of the St.       
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department;             
 providing for an election to be held therefor     
 and the manner of voting thereat; and             
 containing an emergency clause.                   
 Board Member Shelton introduced by                
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 48                     
      An Ordinance concerning the Ville            
 Historic District; designating a described area   
 in the City of St. Louis as an historic district,
 to be known as the Ville Historic District:      
 containing, identifying and providing for        
 maintenance of a general location map of such    
 district, which also evaluates the architectural 
 significance of the improvements within such     
 district; stating the historic, architectural,   
 cultural and aesthetic significance and the      
 current economic condition of such district;     
 describing the advantages to residents of such   
 district and to the City which may be            
 anticipated as a consequence of historic         
 district designation; containing., identifying   
 and providing for maintenance of a plat at a     
 scale of not more than 300 feet to the inch      
 indicating the existing uses of all properties   
 within the district; stating a general plan for  
 the district indicating planned or proposed      
 (public or private) restoration, development     
 and demolition within the district; prescribing  
 historic standards to be applied within the      
 district; stating amendments to the existing     
 zoning classification and boundaries necessary   
 to conform to the proposed plan; with a          
 severability clause and an emergency clause.     
 Board Member Ortmann introduced by               
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 49                    
       An ordinance to designate portions of      
 the Benton Park Neighborhood as a Local          
 Historic District under provisions of Title      
 Twenty-Four of the Code of the City of St.       
 Louis, a complete description of the             
 boundaries of the District more fully described  
 in the body of this ordinance, and providing     
 for a development plan including Design          
 Standards to be applied within the district,     
 containing severability clauses and an           
 emergency clause.                                
 Board Member Shelton introduced by               
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 50                    
       An ordinance repealing Ordinance 66155     
 and enacting a new ordinance prohibiting the     
 issuance of any package or drink liquor          
 licenses for any currently non-licensed          
 premises within the boundaries of the Fourth     
 Ward Liquor Control District, as established     
 herein, for a period of three years from the     
 effective date hereof; containing an exception   
 allowing, during the moratorium period, for      
 the transfer of existing licenses, under certain 
 circumstances, and the issuance of a drink       
 license to persons operating a restaurant at a   
 previously non-licensed premises; and            
 containing an emergency clause.                  
 Board Member President Shrewsbury                
 introduced by request:                           
             Board Bill No. 51                    
      An ordinance recommended by the Board       
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing        
and directing the Mayor, the Comptroller and     
any other appropriate officials on behalf of     
the City of St. Louis, Missouri ("the City")     
to enter into a Offer to Purchase Real Property  
and Acceptance and Lease for Real Property       
with the United States of America ("GSA")        
acceptable to the parties herein authorized      
relating to the a building at 1520 Market        
Streets, St. Louis, MO 63103 ("Abram             
Building"); authorizing and directing the        
Mayor, the Comptroller and any other             
appropriate officials on behalf of the City to   
enter a Lease for Parking Lots for ninety-nine   
(99) years for surface parking lots currently    
leased-the first comprised of approximately      
31,760 square feet to the west of a building at  
Tucker Blvd. and Spruce St., St. Louis, MO       
63103 ("RAY Building") and the second            
comprised of approximately 97,632 square         
feet to the south of the RAY Building-and        
repealing Ordinance Nos. 61979 and 65511,        
which authorized the current leases;             
appropriating the sum of Three Million and       
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($3,050,000.00) from      
the City's General Fund, Fund Balance;           
directing, notwithstanding Ordinance 60419,      
that the proceeds from the sale of 634 North     
Grand be deposited in the City's General         
Fund, Fund Balance to replace the above          
appropriation; authorizing and directing the     
Mayor, the Comptroller and any other             
appropriate officials on behalf of the City to   
execute and deliver documents and                
instruments related thereto; authorizing the     
taking of other actions and the approval and     
execution of other documents as necessary or     
desirable to carry out and comply with the       
intent hereof; and containing an emergency       
clause.                                          
Board Member Waterhouse introduced by            
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 52                     
     An ordinance pertaining to the Twenty-      
fourth Ward Liquor Control District; repealing   
Ordinance 66773 thereby removing the             
moratorium on the issuance of liquor licenses    
in the Twenty-fourth Ward Liquor Control         
District.                                        
Board Member Young introduced by                 
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 53                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing      
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.     
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in         
consideration of the sum of Nine Thousand        
Three Hundred Dollars ($9,300.00) and other      
good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim    
Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim   
unto Jameson Development, L.L.C., certain        
City-owned property located in City Block        
 678, which property is known as a triangular        
 shaped tract of land containing 3,119 square        
 feet, more or less, and containing an emergency     
 clause.                                             
 Board Member Florida introduced by                  
 request:                                            
             Board Bill No. 54                       
       An      ordinance         approving        a  
 Redevelopment Plan for the 4171 Connecticut         
 Street Area ("Area") after finding that the Area    
 is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as              
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300       
 to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description      
 of the boundaries of said Area in the City of       
 St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto and             
 incorporated herein as Exhibit "A", finding         
 that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the        
 Area is in the interest of the public health,       
 safety, morals and general welfare of the people    
 of the City; approving the Plan dated April 4,      
 2006 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated herein     
 by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section        
 99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial  
 plan for the development of the Area which          
 affords maximum opportunity for                     
 development of the Area by private enterprise;      
 finding that no property in the Area may be         
 acquired by the Land Clearance for                  
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.          
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of              
 eminent domain; finding that the property           
 within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should     
 become occupied the Redeveloper shall be            
 responsible for relocating any eligible             
 occupants displaced as a result of                  
 implementation of the Plan; finding that            
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the        
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with           
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available     
 five (5) year real estate tax abatement; and        
 pledging cooperation of the Board of                
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,          
 departments, boards and agencies of the City        
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective       
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.        
 Board Member Florida introduced by                  
 request:                                            
             Board Bill No. 55                       
        An ordinance approving an amendment          
 to the Redevelopment Plan for the 3905 Utah         
 Street & 3801 Wyoming Street Area ("Area")          
 after affirming that the Area blighted by           
 ordinance 65462 as described in Exhibit "A"         
 attached hereto and incorporated by reference       
 is a blighted area as defined in Section 99.320     
 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as       
 amended, (the "Statute" being Sections 99.300       
 to 99.715 inclusive), affirming that                
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area        
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,    
 morals and general welfare of the people of   
 the City; approving the amendment to the      
 Plan dated January 22, 2002 for the Area      
 ("2002 Plan"), and pledging cooperation of    
 the Board of Aldermen and requesting various  
 officials, departments, boards and agencies of
 the City to cooperate and exercise their      
 respective powers in a manner consistent with 
 the amendment to the 2002 Plan.               
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                     
        OF BOARD BILLS                         
       Transportation & Commerce               
                  None                         
             Ways and Means                    
        Board Bills No. 44, 51 and 53          
               Public Safety                   
      Board Bills No. 48, 49, 50 and 52        
               Public Utilities                
                    None                       
                Legislation                    
              Board Bill No. 47                
        Health and Human Services              
                   None                        
              Public Employees                 
                    None                       
         Streets, Traffic and Refuse           
                    None                       
         Intergovernmental Affairs             
                   None                        
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions          
                 None                          
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning           
        Board Bills No. 45 and 46              
        Neighborhood Development               
         Board Bills No. 54 and 55             
         Convention and Tourism                
                  None                         
    Parks and Environmental Matters            
                 None                          
       Personnel and Administration            
                   None                        
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                    
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                     
     Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways       
 and Means submitted the following report      
 which was read.                               
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,       
 May 5, 2006.                                  
      To the President of the Board of         
 Aldermen:                                     
      The Committee on Ways and Means to       
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,  
 report that they have considered the same and 
 recommend adoption.                           
            Board Bill No. 29                  
      An ordinance recommended by the Board    
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing     
and directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance      
Corporation (the "Corporation") to issue and       
sell the Corporation's City Justice Center         
Leasehold Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series          
2006 (the "Series 2006 Bonds") in an aggregate     
principal amount of not to exceed                  
$26,000,000 in order to refund all or a portion    
of its City Justice Center Leasehold Revenue       
Improvement Bonds, Series 1996A and its            
City Justice Center Leasehold Revenue              
Improvement and Refunding Bonds, Series            
1996B (collectively, the "Refunded Bonds"),        
and, if desirable, to redeem a portion of its      
City Justice Center Leasehold Revenue              
Improvement Bonds, Series 2000A (the               
"Redeemed Bonds"), for the general welfare,        
safety and benefit of the citizens of the City     
of St. Louis, Missouri (the "City");               
authorizing and directing the Corporation to       
execute and deliver the Fifth Supplemental         
Indenture of Trust, the Third Supplemental         
Base Lease, if any, the Third Supplemental         
Lease Agreement, if any, the Tax Compliance        
Agreement, the Official Statement, the Bond        
Purchase Agreement, and the Escrow                 
Agreement, if any; authorizing the City to         
execute the Third Supplemental Base Lease,         
if any, the Third Supplemental Lease               
Agreement, if any, the Second Supplemental         
Pledge Agreement, if any, the Continuing           
Disclosure Agreement, the Tax Compliance           
Agreement, the Official Statement, the Bond        
Purchase Agreement, and the Escrow                 
Agreement, if any; authorizing the Corporation     
and the City to obtain credit enhancement for      
the Series 2006 Bonds from a Credit Provider,      
authorizing the payment of any obligations         
due to a Credit Provider, if any, and authorizing  
the Comptroller and any other appropriate          
City officials to execute the Credit Agreement     
and other documents related thereto, if any;       
authorizing participation of appropriate City      
officials in preparing the Official Statement;     
authorizing the acceptance of the terms of the     
Bond Purchase Agreement and the taking of          
further actions with respect thereto;              
authorizing the payment of certain costs of        
issuance thereof; authorizing and directing the    
taking of other actions and approval and           
execution of other documents as necessary or       
desirable to carry out and comply with the         
intent hereof; repealing ordinances of the City    
to the extent inconsistent with the terms          
hereof; and containing an emergency clause.        
            Board Bill No. 32                      
     An ordinance to provide for the               
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the          
collection of tax payments levied by the City      
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in it's         
General Revenue Fund for the calendar year         
ending December 31, 2006, and remaining            
uncollected and other revenues remaining to        
be collected and deposited in the General          
 Revenue Fund for fiscal year ending June 30,       
 2007, all such revenues for the General            
 Revenue Fund in the treasury of the City of        
 St. Louis, Missouri through the issuance by        
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri of its Tax and     
 Revenue Anticipation Notes, and the acquiring      
 of credit enhancement if necessary in order to     
 lower the cost of such borrowing; prescribing      
 the form and details of such notes; authorizing    
 and approving certain documents and other          
 actions; and containing an emergency clause.       
             Board Bill No. 33                      
       An ordinance recommended by the Board        
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing          
 and directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance      
 Corporation (the "Corporation") to issue and       
 sell its Carnahan Courthouse Leasehold             
 Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2006A (City        
 of St. Louis, Missouri, Lessee) (the "Series       
 2006A Bonds") in an aggregate principal            
 amount not to exceed $27,000,000 in order to       
 refund all or a portion of its outstanding         
 Carnahan Courthouse Leasehold Revenue              
 Bonds, Series 2002A (City of St. Louis,            
 Missouri, Lessee) (the "Series 2002A Bonds")       
 for the general welfare, safety and benefit of     
 the citizens of the City of St. Louis, Missouri    
 (the "City"); authorizing and directing the        
 Corporation to execute and deliver the First       
 Supplemental Indenture, the First                  
 Supplemental Lease Agreement, the Official         
 Statement, the Tax Compliance Agreement,           
 the Escrow Agreement, and the Bond Purchase        
 Agreement (as such documents are defined           
 herein and collectively referred to as the         
 "Corporation Documents"); authorizing and          
 directing the Mayor and Comptroller and any        
 other appropriate City officials, if necessary,    
 to execute, as provided herein, the following      
 documents: the First Supplemental Lease            
 Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Escrow        
 Agreement, the Tax Compliance Agreement,           
 the Continuing Disclosure Agreement, the           
 Official Statement and the Bond Purchase           
 Agreement (as such documents are defined           
 herein and collectively referred to as the "City   
 Documents"); authorizing and approving the         
 First Supplemental Indenture; authorizing the      
 Corporation and the City to obtain credit          
 enhancement for the Series 2006A Bonds from        
 a Credit Provider (as hereinafter defined);        
 authorizing the payment of any obligations         
 due to a Credit Provider, if any, and authorizing  
 the Comptroller and any other appropriate          
 City officials to execute any Credit Agreement     
 or other documents related thereto, if any;        
 authorizing the pledge of certain revenues         
 pursuant to the Pledge Agreement; authorizing      
 and approving the First Supplemental               
 Indenture; authorizing participation of            
 appropriate City officials in drafting the         
 Preliminary Official Statement and final           
 Official Statement and the taking of further       
 actions with respect thereto; authorizing the    
 acceptance of the terms of the Bond Purchase     
 Agreement and the taking of further action       
 with respect thereto; authorizing the payment    
 of certain costs of issuance thereof; authorizing
 and directing the taking of other actions, and   
 the approval and execution of other              
 documents, as necessary or desirable, to carry   
 out and comply with the intent hereof;           
 repealing ordinances of the City to the extent   
 inconsistent with the terms hereof, and          
 containing an emergency clause.                  
             Board Bill No. 35                    
       An ordinance relating to the graduated     
 business license tax imposed pursuant to         
 Ordinance 60643; imposing, subject to the        
 approval of the voters, increased graduated      
 business license taxes; repealing, subject to    
 the approval of the qualified voters SECTION     
 ONE of Ordinance 60643, approved January         
 8, 1988, and enacting in lieu thereof a new      
 SECTION ONE imposing increased graduated         
 business license taxes; submitting to the        
 qualified voters of the City of St. Louis a      
 proposition to approve the increase in the       
 graduated business license taxes; providing for  
 an election and the manner of voting thereat;    
 providing that if such question shall receive    
 the votes of a majority of the voters voting     
 thereon that such tax shall be authorized and    
 shall be imposed on graduated business           
 licenses issued for the tax year beginning June  
 1, 2006 and every tax year thereafter; and       
 containing a severability clause and an          
 emergency clause.                                
            REPORT OF                             
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                        
      None.                                       
            PERFECTION                            
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
      None.                                       
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
      None.                                       
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
      None.                                       
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
      None.                                       
          REPORT OF THE                           
      ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        
      None.                                       
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       President Shrewsbury introduced            
 Resolutions No. 12-18 and the Clerk was          
 instructed to read same.                         
           Resolution No. 12                      
     WHEREAS,, UNICO National was                 
established by Dr. Anthony Vastola in             
Waterbury, Connecticut in 1922; and               
     WHEREAS,, 84 years later UNICO               
National is the largest Italian American service  
organization in the United States with more       
than 130 chapters nationwide; and                 
      WHEREAS,, UNICO National's`                 
mission is to contribute to the well-being of     
local communities throughout the nation by        
making significant contributions to deserving     
local and national charities; and                 
     WHEREAS,, on Sunday, April 30, 2006,         
the St. Louis Metro Chapter of UNICO              
National will receive its charter as the newest   
chapter of this outstanding organization; and     
     WHEREAS,, this historic event will be        
attended by Michael Spano, Executive Vice         
President of UNICO National and a contingent      
of UNICO members from the Memphis,                
Tennessee Chapter which is the sponsoring         
chapter for St. Louis Metro; and                  
     WHEREAS,, at the same time as the            
charter presentation, Mr. Spano will install      
the officers of the new Chapter including,        
President Angelo Sita, First Vice President       
Joseph Gandolfo, Second Vice President            
Michael Caltagirone, Treasurer Paul               
Grundhauser, Secretary Charles Jahneke and        
Marshall Vincent Passanisi;                       
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our       
deliberations to recognize the members of the     
St. Louis Metro Chapter of UNICO National         
and all of the participants in the Charter        
Presentation Ceremony and we congratulate         
them on the occasion of the establishment         
UNICO's newest chapter and we further             
thank the members of the St. Louis Metro          
Chapter for their dedication and commitment       
to the St. Louis community and we direct the      
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this      
Resolution across the minutes of these            
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
copy for presentation to our honorees at a        
time and place deemed appropriate by the          
Sponsor.                                          
Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2006 by:        
Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward     
           Resolution No. 13                      
     WHEREAS, we have been advised that           
on May 7, 2006 the rank of Eagle Scout will       
be awarded to Daniel V. Zdrodowski, who           
lives with his family at 3444 Crittenden          
Avenue; and                                       
     WHEREAS, Daniel is the son of William            
 and Mary Zdrodowski, who are both proud              
 and happy to announce this momentous                 
 accomplishment in Daniel's life; and                 
      WHEREAS, Daniel has dedicated                   
 himself to the hard work and commitment of           
 the Scouting program without forgetting the          
 importance of his education; and                     
       WHEREAS, those who are familiar with           
 Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout      
 is a goal sought by many but attained by few;        
 requiring intelligence, perseverance, and a          
 strong sense of service to your community;           
 and                                                  
       WHEREAS, Daniel is a role model for            
 all of the younger scouts in Troop 6 and will        
 be honored by them, along with his family            
 and many friends, at the Eagle Scout Court of        
 Honor to be held on May 7, 2006;                     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                 
 the City of St. Louis, being apprised of the         
 significant recognition to be bestowed on            
 Daniel V. Zdrodowski at the Eagle Court of           
 Honor, and wishing in some small way to add          
 our congratulations and best wishes to Daniel        
 and his family, we pause in our deliberations        
 to consider and adopt this resolution, and           
 instruct the Clerk of this Board to spread a         
 copy of this resolution over the permanent           
 rolls of the Board and to further prepare a          
 memorial copy of this resolution so that it          
 may be presented to our honoree as deemed            
 appropriate by the resolution's sponsor.             
 Introduced this 5th day of May, 2006 by:             
 The Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President of the  
 Board ofAldermen                                     
             Resolution No. 14                        
      WHEREAS, the month of May is                    
 recognized in the State of Missouri and the          
 City of St. Louis as "Foster Parent Month";          
 and                                                  
       WHEREAS, in conjunction with the               
 Missouri Children's Division, foster parents         
 provide a safe and stable surrounding for            
 children whose natural parents and families          
 are in crisis and seeking the help they need to      
 reestablish a healthy home environment; and          
      WHEREAS, all children need and                  
 deserve a warm home, nutritious meals, clean         
 clothes and someone to love and care for them;       
 and                                                  
      WHEREAS, more than 1300 children                
 from the City of St. Louis live in foster care;      
 and                                                  
      WHEREAS, the generous and devoted               
 individuals and families who provide the safe        
 havens of the Missouri foster care system are        
 providing an extraordinary service to this city
 and state which will be evident for years to   
 come as the foster children of today, who so   
 greatly benefit from this program, grow into   
 the community leaders of tomorrow;             
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our     
 deliberations, as we begin Foster Parent       
 Month, to recognize and thank the foster       
 parents who serve the children of the City of  
 St. Louis and the State of Missouri and we     
 encourage families and individuals throughout  
 this community to support this important       
 effort to ensure the safety, health and well   
 being of our youth and we further direct the   
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this   
 Resolution across the minutes of these         
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative     
 copy to the end that it may be presented to    
 our honorees at a time and place deemed        
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                    
 Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2006 by:     
 Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President of    
 the Board of Aldermen                          
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward      
            Resolution No. 15                   
       WHEREAS, we have been advised that       
 on May 7, 2006 the rank of Eagle Scout will    
 be awarded to Kyle Meyer, who lives with       
 his family at 5006 Theiss Avenue; and          
     WHEREAS, Kyle is the son of Steven         
 and Beth Meyer, who are both proud and         
 happy to announce this momentous               
 accomplishment in Kyle's life; and             
      WHEREAS, Kyle has dedicated himself       
 to the hard work and commitment of the         
 Scouting program without forgetting the        
 importance of his education; and               
       WHEREAS, those who are familiar with     
 Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout
 is a goal sought by many but attained by few;  
 requiring intelligence, perseverance, and a    
 strong sense of service to your community;     
 and                                            
       WHEREAS, Kyle is a role model for all    
 of the younger scouts in Troop 6 and will be   
 honored by them, along with his family and     
 many friends, at the Eagle Scout Court of      
 Honor to be held on May 7, 2006;               
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis, being apprised of the   
 significant recognition to be bestowed on Kyle 
 Meyer at the Eagle Court of Honor, and         
 wishing in some small way to add our           
 congratulations and best wishes to Kyle and    
 his family, we pause in our deliberations to   
consider and adopt this resolution, and          
instruct the Clerk of this Board to spread a     
copy of this resolution over the permanent       
rolls of the Board and to further prepare a      
memorial copy of this resolution so that it      
may be presented to our honoree as deemed        
appropriate by the resolution's sponsor.         
Introduced this 5th day of May, 2006 by:         
The Honorable James F. Shrewsbury,               
President of the Board ofAldermen                
           Resolution No. 16                     
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
on May 14, 2006, Joseph P. Holway will           
celebrate his glorious 85th Birthday; and        
     WHEREAS, Joe was born and raised in         
the City of St. Louis and is a distinguished     
graduate St. John the Baptist Elementary         
School and Cleveland High School; and            
      WHEREAS, Joe served with the Armed         
Forces of the United States in World War II      
and, after his honorable discharge, began his    
career with the U. S. Postal Service from which  
he retired in 1982; and                          
     WHEREAS, throughout his life Joe has        
enjoyed the love and support of his wife of      
59 years, Anna and his children, JoAnne,         
George, Jerry, Thomas, Denny, Mary, Pam,         
Bob and Barbara; and                             
      WHEREAS, Joe is an outstanding             
member of our community and we join with         
his family and many friends in the celebration   
of this joyous occasion;                         
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to congratulate Joseph P.          
Holway on the occasion of his 85th Birthday      
and we wish him continued peace, good health     
and happiness and we further direct the Clerk    
of this Board to spread a copy of this           
Resolution across the minutes of these           
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
copy to the end that it may be presented to      
our honoree at a time and place deemed           
appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2006 by:       
HonorableAlfred Wessels,Alderman 13th Ward       
Honorable Matt Villa,Alderman 11th Ward          
           Resolution No. 17                     
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
on March 17, 2006 Reverend Monsignor             
Salvatore E. Polizzi celebrated his Fiftieth     
Anniversary as a Priest in the Archdiocese of    
St. Louis; and                                   
     WHEREAS, Monsignor Polizzi was              
born and raised in the City of St. Louis, the    
son of Vito and Rosalia Polizzi and is a         
 distinguished graduate of Kenrick Theological     
 Seminary and St. Louis University where he        
 received his Masters of Arts Degree in Urban      
 Planning; and                                     
       WHEREAS, 2006 is a year of                  
 anniversaries for Monsignor Polizzi who is        
 also celebrating his 75th Birthday and 25 years   
 of service as Pastor at St. Roch Catholic         
 Church; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Monsignor Polizzi is               
 recognized and respected throughout the St.       
 Louis community for his many years of civic       
 and community service which includes service      
 on the Human Rights Commission for the State      
 of Missouri, the Magdala Foundation, Coro         
 Foundation, the Executive Committee for           
 Regional Hospital, the Board of Directors for     
 Operation Food Search and 17 years as             
 chairman of the Land Reutilization Authority      
 for the City of St. Louis; and                    
       WHEREAS, Monsignor Polizzi's                
 greatest achievement is his life of service as a  
 parish priest and his tireless commitment to      
 the spiritual well being of those he is asked to  
 serve; and                                        
       WHEREAS, Monsignor Polizzi is an            
 exceptional member of our community whose         
 service to the parish family at St. Roch and to   
 all of our citizens is greatly appreciated;       
       WHEREAS, on Sunday, May 7, 2006,            
 the members of St. Roch Parish, along with        
 the family and countless friends of Monsignor     
 Polizzi, will gather together to honor him and    
 celebrate his many years of spiritual leadership  
 in the City of St. Louis; and                     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize and honor Reverend     
 Monsignor Salvatore E. Polizzi, on the            
 occasion of his Fiftieth Anniversary as a Parish  
 Priest in the Archdiocese of St. Louis and we     
 thank him for his outstanding service to our      
 community and we further direct the Clerk of      
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution    
 across the minutes of these proceedings and       
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end        
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a      
 time and place deemed appropriate by the          
 Sponsor.                                          
 Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2006 by:        
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward       
            Resolution No. 18                      
      WHEREAS,, we have been apprised              
 that on May 26, 2006, the the 26th Annual         
 "Bringing It Together" Celebration in honor       
 of Older American's Month will take place at      
 the Muny Opera Pavilion in Forest Park; and       
      WHEREAS,, this annual event is a          
 collaborative effort by the City of St. Louis  
 Parks, Recreation and Forestry Department,     
 St. Louis Area Agency on Aging, Southside      
 Wellness Center and senior citizen centers     
 throughout the city; and                       
      WHEREAS,, this important community        
 program acknowledges the many                  
 contributions senior citizens have made to the 
 St. Louis region through the sharing of their  
 experience, knowledge and unique talents; and  
       WHEREAS,, this exciting celebration      
 will be highlighted by music, dancing, food,   
 informational booths and an opportunity for    
 an important sharing experience between        
 senior citizens and the youth of our           
 community; and                                 
       WHEREAS,, it is fitting that we          
 recognize the many outstanding senior citizens 
 of this city during "Older American Month";    
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our    
 deliberations to recognize the sponsors and    
 participants of the 26th Annual "Bringing It   
 Together" celebration and we thank them and    
 all of the senior citizens of this community   
 for their many contributions to the residents  
 of our city and we further direct the Clerk of 
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution 
 across the minutes of these proceedings and    
 to prepare a commemorative copy for            
 presentation to our honoree at a time and place
 deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.             
 Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2006 by:     
 Honorable Kathleen Hanrahan, Alderwoman 23rd   
 Ward                                           
 Honorable Michael McMillan,Alderman 19th Ward  
      Unanimous consent having been             
 obtained Resolutions No. 12-18 stood           
 considered.                                    
      President Shrewsbury moved that           
 Resolutions No. 12-18 be adopted, at this      
 meeting of the Board.                          
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
           FIRST READING OF                     
             RESOLUTIONS                        
      None.                                     
         SECOND READING OF                      
            RESOLUTIONS                         
     Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways        
 and Means submitted the following report       
 which was read.                                
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,        
 May 5, 2006.                                   
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
     The Committee on Ways and Means to           
whom was referred the following Resolution,       
report that they have considered the same and     
recommend adoption.                               
            Resolution No. 8                      
     WHEREAS, the Missouri General                
Assembly has enacted the Municipal                
Telecommunications Business License Tax           
Simplification Act, sections 92.074 to 92.098     
RSMo.;                                            
      WHEREAS, section 92.080 RSMo.               
requires each municipality imposing a business    
license tax on a telecommunications company       
to comply with sections 92.074 to 92.098          
RSMo.;                                            
     WHEREAS, section 92.083 RSMo.                
specifies that sections 92.074 to 92.098          
RSMo. do not repeal any existing municipal        
ordinance imposing a business license tax on a    
telecommunications company as long as it          
complies with section 92.086 RSMo.;               
      WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis has          
an existing municipal ordinance imposing a        
business license tax on telecommunications        
companies, known as the Telephone                 
Company Alternative Tax, sections 23.34.010       
to 23.34.090 of the Revised Code of the City      
of St. Louis;                                     
      WHEREAS, prior to enactment of the          
Municipal Telecommunications Business             
License Tax Simplification Act, pursuant to       
the provisions of the Telephone Company           
Alternative Tax, the City of St. Louis imposed    
a tax of ten percent (10%) on gross receipts of   
all persons, firms or corporations engaged in a   
general telephone business;                       
      WHEREAS, section 92.086 RSMo                
requires that a municipality adjust its business  
license tax rate on telecommunications            
companies to a percentage determined on a         
tax base equal to the total amount of             
telecommunication business license taxes          
collected by a municipality for fiscal year       
2005, increased by fifty percent of the           
difference between such amount and the            
business license tax receipts that would have     
been yielded by applying the gross receipts       
percentage rate in effect for the municipality    
prior to the effective date of sections 92.074    
to 92.098 RSMo., to the total gross receipts      
for all wireless telecommunications services      
provided by telecommunications companies;         
     WHEREAS, pursuant to information             
provided by the Missouri Department of            
Revenue, the adjusted tax rate calculated in      
accordance with the immediately preceding         
clause for the City of St. Louis has been         
 determined to be nine and five-tenths percent     
 (9.5%);                                           
       WHEREAS, section 92.086 RSMo.               
 provides that, effective July 1, 2006, all        
 business license taxes shall be based solely      
 and exclusively on those gross receipts of        
 telecommunications companies for the retail       
 sale of telecommunications services which are     
 subject to taxation under sections 144.010 and    
 144.020, RSMo;                                    
      WHEREAS, section 92.086 RSMo.                
 provides that there may be a further              
 adjustment of the foregoing tax rate for bills    
 rendered on or after July 1, 2007;                
       WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis is           
 currently challenging the constitutionality of    
 the Municipal Telecommunications Business         
 License Tax Simplification Act in the Missouri    
 Supreme Court, and if said Act is held            
 unconstitutional, then the foregoing adjusted     
 tax rate may be determined as null and void;      
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that its business license   
 tax shall be based solely and exclusively on      
 those gross receipts of telecommunications        
 companies for the retail sale of                  
 telecommunications services which are subject     
 to taxation under sections 144.010 and            
 144.020, RSMo, which shall be assessed at a       
 rate of nine and five-tenths percent (9.5%) of    
 gross receipts, beginning on July 1, 2006, and    
 continuing until June 30, 2007, or until the      
 date that the Missouri Supreme Court issues       
 a decision that the Municipal                     
 Telecommunications Business License Tax           
 Simplification Act is unconstitutional,           
 whichever occurs sooner; and that if the          
 Missouri Supreme Court issues a decision that     
 the Municipal Telecommunications Business         
 License Tax Simplification Act is                 
 unconstitutional, then in such event, the tax     
 rate of nine and five-tenths percent (9.5%)       
 shall be immediately null and void as of the      
 date of issuance of that decision, and there      
 shall immediately be in effect a tax rate of ten  
 percent (10%) of gross receipts.                  
 Introduced on the 28th day of April, 2006 by:     
 Honorable Stephen Conway,Alderman 8th Ward        
      Mr. Conway moved to adopt Resolution         
 No. 8.                                            
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                      
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                          
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                        
      None.                                        
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                           
      None.                                        
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                         
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the             
 following aldermen due to their necessary        
 absence: Mr. Troupe, Mr. McMillan and Mr.        
 Carter.                                          
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                      
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
              ADJOURNMENT                         
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under         
 rules to return May 12, 2006.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
      Respectfully submitted,                     
      Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk                 
      Board of Aldermen                           
   BOARD OF                                       
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                   
          REGULAR MEETING                         
       St. Louis, MO - May 9, 2006                
      Present: Directors Visintainer, Suelmann,   
 Siedhoff, Kincaid and President Melton           
      Absent: Directors Bess and Simon.           
 (excused)                                        
      Requests of the Director of Parks,          
 Recreation and Forestry designating Mr. Greg     
 Hayes to act in his behalf and; Director of      
 Public Safety to be excused from the Regular     
 Meeting of May 2, 2006 were received and         
 leaves of absence granted.                       
      All actions pertaining to the Directors     
 of Parks, Recreation and Forestry and Public     
 Safety shall be the Special Order of the Day     
 by the Board.                                    
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May       
 2, 2006 were unanimously approved.               
      The following documents were referred       
 by the Secretary:                                
                 May 5, 2006                      
       To the President and Directors of Public   
 Utilities, Streets and Public Safety: 111338,    
 Fred Weber, demolish Compton Avenue Bridge       
 over I-64.                                       
        To the Directors of Public Utilities and  
 Public Safety: 111339, Charles Pittman,          
 consolidation deed for 4032 and 4034 Aldine      
 to be made into 1 parcel at 4032 Aldine in       
 C.B. 3658, 111340, Hibbs Homes Plat 1, a         
 tract of land being all of Lot 20 and the western
 38' of Lot 2 in block 15 of Tyler Place in C.B.  
 4948, 111341, Shaw Boulevard Townhouse,          
 subdivide Lot 39 and the western 20' of Lot      
 40 of Shaw's Lafayette Avenue Addition No.       
 3 in C.B. 5311.                                  
      To the President and Directors of Public    
Utilities and Streets: 111342, Dogtown Walk       
II Subdivision, rebuild public sidewalks and      
install new private street entrance known and     
numbered as 2130 and 2131 Waldemar in C.B.        
4624-B.                                           
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and    
Streets: 111343, Union Electric, divert existing  
conduit and marry with customer conduit on        
east side of west 4th b/t Poplar and Spruce.      
      To the Director of Streets: 111344,         
Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc., remove some         
existing lighting on 3rd b/t Martin Luther King   
and Carr, 111345, David L. Bailey, encroach       
with sidewalk cafe at 1104 and 1106 Locust.       
     To the Directors of Health and Hospitals     
and Public Safety: 111346, Granny's Home          
Day Care, conduct a day care at 4028 Oregon,      
111325, Land Of Oz Academy, amend to              
conduct a day care center a 1172 N.               
Kingshighway to (24) Infants and (44) 1 1/2 -     
12 yrs.                                           
               May 8, 2006                        
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and    
Streets: 111349, Laclede Gas Co. to replace       
an existing below grade low pressure regulator    
in the R.O.W. at the n/w corner of Pernod and     
Regal with an above ground regulator stations,    
111350, ATT Corporation, extend a 4" PVC          
20' onto Linden just west of 13th and tapping     
into our existing conduit run, 111351, SBC,       
place a 1056 ` of buried cable from the cabinet   
at the side of 1025 Hodiamont to the south        
side of the apartments at 1016 N. Skinker,        
111352, AT&T Corp, place 40' 3" I/P to 1708       
Delmar and trenching approx 80 along the          
building going east to west in the alley south    
of Delmar.                                        
     To the Directors of Public Utilities and     
Public Safety: 111353, Jefferson Delmar LLC,      
boundary adjustment plat for lots A & B in        
D.B. 931 at 2600 and 2628 Delmar, 111354,         
Angle Roofing and Gutter, consolidate 2           
parcels into 1 parcel 916 and 918-28 Benton       
in C.B. 341, 111355, Roger Lambeth, lot           
consolidation plat at 1916 thru 1928 Geyer        
(at Mississippi) in C.B. 1332, 111356,            
Rothchild Properties West End, consolidate        
by deed two parcels into 1 lot at 4054-4060       
Chouteau, C.B. 3993.                              
     To the Director of Streets: 111252, Les      
Beaux Enfant, amend permit to include 6           
additional banners located from the corner of     
Ashland to Natural Bridge on the 3300 block       
of Union.                                         
                LETTINGS                          
     Four sealed proposals for the public         
work advertised under Letting No. 8299 -          
Benton Park Lake Liner were received,             
publicly opened, read and referred to the         
President.                                        
      Communications, reports, recommenda-       
 dations and documents were submitted by         
 Board Members and action thereon taken as       
 follows:                                        
                PRESIDENT                        
      Detailed plans and specifications for the  
 following work approved and Board set date      
 of June 13, 2006 for opening bids for work      
 and Secretary instructed to insert the proper   
 advertisement therefore:                        
      Letting No. 8305 - West End                
 Community Center Fire Protection and Life       
 Safety Improvements.                            
       Addendum No. 1 to the plans and           
 specifications for Letting No. 8300 -           
 Residential Sound Insulation Program Part       
 XXXVI at Lambert approved and made part         
 of the original plans.                          
      Addendum No. 1 to the plans and            
 specifications for Letting No. 8302 - FY 07     
 Citywide Sidewalk Contract approved and         
 made part of the original plans.                
      P.S.A. No. 1025 with Burns &               
 McDonnell for The Design of Delmar Median       
 and Streetscape, Union to Kingshighway,         
 Project No. STP-5500(602) approved and          
 President authorized to execute same.           
      P.S.A. No. 1026 with Parsons               
 Brinckerhoff Quade & Douglas, Inc. for          
 Master Plan Update - Phase 1 (Airport Layout    
 Plan Update) at Lambert approved and            
 President authorized to execute same.           
      Emergency Work Orders issued for the       
 month of April, 2006 by the Dept. of the        
 President and Facilities Management Division    
 approved.                                       
 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                    
      Board declared as emergency Repair of      
 1200 amp frame circuit breaker for the Chain    
 of Rocks Distributive Station Motor Control     
 Center.                                         
       DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                       
       UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
       Application No. 111248, AT & T, place     
 telephone cable from manhole at No. 11th and    
 Lucas going west on Lucas to rear of 1123       
 Washington, etc., ordered approved, subject     
 to certain conditions.                          
      DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      5 subdivision permits ordered approved     
 as follows, subject to certain conditions:      
 111326, Kennedy & Pilcher, 911-13 Rutger        
 in C.B. 466E, 111315, Near Southside            
 Improvement Corp., 1700 LaSalle in C.B. 482-    
 WA, 111314, Presidential Building Services,     
 3845 Cook in C.B. 3729, 111334, BJC             
 Healthcare, 4444 Forest Park in C.B. 3903,      
 111339, Charles Pittman, 4032-34 Aldine in    
 C.B. 3658.                                    
       Application No. 111317, Westre          
 Investments, LLC, subdivide land in C.B. 3024 
 at 7135 and 7137 Virginia ordered denied,     
 minimum lot size required per dwelling unit   
 for newly platted parcels in the B-Two Family 
 Dwelling District is 2,500 square feet.       
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                     
      Draft of the following ordinance         
 approved, and Secretary instructed to forward 
 same to the Board of Aldermen with the        
 recommendation that it be passed:             
      "An ordinance to vacate Lucas from       
 19th and 20th in C.B. 942/2003."              
      2 encroachment permits ordered           
 approved as follows, subject to certain       
 conditions: 111322, Siteman Cancer Center,    
 place banner along Kingshighway at Forest     
 Park promoting the Komen Race for the Cure    
 on June 10, 2006, 111323, Drury Inn, place    
 trash compactor in the alley behind Drury     
 Inn St. Louis Union Station Hotel located at  
 201 S. 20th.                                  
      DIRECTOR OF PARKS,                       
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
      Permits ordered approved as follows,     
 subject to certain conditions: 111347, Gateway
 Pyrotechnic Productions, LLC, conduct 5-6     
 minute fireworks display in Forest Park       
 behind Dwight Davis Tennis Courts on May      
 13, 2006 at Pagoda Circle, 111348, African-   
 American Heritage Festival, hold event in     
 Fairgrounds Park May 21, 2006.                
     DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                       
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                    
       Application No. 110723, Lift for Life,  
 hold St. Louis Micro-Fest Beer Festival May   
 13, 2006 in the Upper Muny Parking Lot in     
 Forest Park ordered approved, subject to      
 certain conditions.                           
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                      
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      2 day care centers ordered approved as   
 follows: 111154, Kiddiversity Child Care      
 Center, conduct day care center at 1654 Tower 
 Grove, 111325, Land of Oz Academy, 1172       
 N. Kingshighway.                              
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      4 Conditional Use Permits ordered        
 approved, as submitted by the Hearing         
 Officer, per Board Order No. 766.             
      The following documents were not listed  
 on the Posted Agenda: 270199-202, 270204-     
 211 and 270218.                               
     Adjourned to meet Tuesday, May 16,        
 2006 at 1:45 P.M.                             
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.          
                 President                         
ATTEST:                                            
                 Darlene A. Plump                  
                 Secretary                         
            Office of the                          
       Board of Public Service                     
          City of St. Louis                        
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
St. Louis, Missouri time on May 23, 2006 at        
which time they will be publicly opened and        
read, viz:                                         
JOB TITLE: FY 07 CITYWIDE SIDE-                    
WALK CONTRACT, PROJECT NO.                         
06027                                              
LETTING NO: 8302                                   
DEPOSIT: $23,500.00                                
     Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
President of the Board of Public Service,          
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be         
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-             
bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).      
     Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
Thirty Five dollars ($35.00) for each set.         
     Purchased sets become the property of         
the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
be made.                                           
      Proposals must be made on blank forms        
to be furnished by the President of the Board      
of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
Room 208 City Hall.                                
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
show the products of the respective unit prices    
and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
Sum for which he will perform all of the           
estimated work, as requested by the general        
requirements and covenants, specifications,        
and plans.                                         
     In case of a discrepancy between the          
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The          
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and             
 5%.The Contract shall provide that not less        
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
 of workmen needed in the actual construction       
 work on the site of the construction job herein    
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
 be paid to all workmen.                            
      All labor to be performed under this          
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
       The right of the Board of Public Service     
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,       
 April 18, 2006.                                    
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.          
                  President                         
 ATTEST:                                            
                  Darlene A. Plump                  
                  Secretary                         
             Office of the                          
        Board of Public Service                     
           City of St. Louis                        
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
 St. Louis, Missouri time on May 23, 2006 at        
 which time they will be publicly opened and        
 read, viz:                                         
 JOB TITLE: CONCRETE AND BRICK                    
 REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT AND COM-                     
 PLETE SIDEWALK INSTALLATION,                     
 PROJECT NO. SP-69 (FY06-CIP)                     
 LETTING NO: 8301                                 
 DEPOSIT: $10,225.00                              
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of        
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the    
 President of the Board of Public Service,        
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be       
 viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-           
 bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).    
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and        
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving          
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of       
 Twenty Five dollars ($25.00) for each set.       
      Purchased sets become the property of       
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will       
 be made.                                         
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208 City Hall.                              
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications,      
 and plans.                                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as    
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall     
 prevail.                                         
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or   
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,       
 for the amount of Deposit required, as           
 heretofore stated.                               
       All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the   
 work completed, less a retained amount of        
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including      
 all retained percentages, will be made within    
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and   
 final acceptance by the City.                    
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively    
 insure that in any contract entered into         
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority         
business enterprises will be afforded full         
opportunity to submit bids in response to          
this invitation and will not be discriminated      
against on the grounds of race, color or national  
origin in consideration for an award. The          
M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
      The Contract shall provide that not less     
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
City of St. Louis as determined by the             
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
of workmen needed in the actual construction       
work on the site of the construction job herein    
authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
be paid to all workmen.                            
     All labor to be performed under this          
contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
      The right of the Board of Public Service     
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,       
April 18, 2006.                                    
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.          
                 President                         
ATTEST:                                            
                 Darlene A. Plump                  
                 Secretary                         
            Office of the                          
       Board of Public Service                     
          City of St. Louis                        
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
St. Louis, Missouri time on June 06, 2006 at       
which time they will be publicly opened and        
read, viz:                                         
JOB TITLE: CARNAHAN COURT-                         
HOUSE MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                         
AND CONTROLS UPGRADE BID                           
PACKAGE 2 HVAC EQUIPMENT                           
UPGRADE BID PACKAGE                                
LETTING NO: 8303                                   
DEPOSIT: $45,825.00                                
     Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
President of the Board of Public Service,          
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be         
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-             
bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).      
     Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 SEVENTY FIVE dollars ($ 75.00) for each            
 set.                                               
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
 be made.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The M/       
 WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.           
       The Contract shall provide that not less     
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
 of workmen needed in the actual construction       
 work on the site of the construction job herein    
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
 be paid to all workmen.                            
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,     
 April 25, 2006.                                  
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Darlene A. Plump                
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by     
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market         
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,     
 St. Louis, Missouri time on JUNE 06, 2006        
 at which time they will be publicly opened       
 and read, viz:                                   
 JOB TITLE: BROADWAY AVENUE                       
 BRIDGE OVER RIVER DES PERES                      
 SOUTH APPROACH PHASE II                          
 LETTING NO: 8304                                 
 DEPOSIT: $13,700.00                              
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of        
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the    
 President of the Board of Public Service,        
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be       
 viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-           
 bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).    
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and        
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving          
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of       
 FIFTY dollars ($50.00) for each set.             
      Purchased sets become the property of       
 the prospective bidder and No Refunds will       
 be made.                                         
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208 City Hall.                              
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
Sum for which he will perform all of the           
estimated work, as requested by the general        
requirements and covenants, specifications,        
and plans.                                         
     In case of a discrepancy between the          
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
prevail.                                           
     Each bid must be accompanied by a             
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
for the amount of Deposit required, as             
heretofore stated.                                 
      All work under this contract will be paid    
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
all retained percentages, will be made within      
ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
final acceptance by the City.                      
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
insure that in any contract entered into           
pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
business enterprises will be afforded full         
opportunity to submit bids in response to          
this invitation and will not be discriminated      
against on the grounds of race, color or national  
origin in consideration for an award. The DBE      
goal for this project is 10%.                      
      The Contract shall provide that not less     
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
City of St. Louis as determined by the             
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
of workmen needed in the actual construction       
work on the site of the construction job herein    
authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
be paid to all workmen.                            
     All labor to be performed under this          
contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
      The right of the Board of Public Service     
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,       
May 2, 2006.                                       
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.          
                 President                         
ATTEST:                                            
                 Darlene A. Plump                  
                 Secretary                         
             Office of the                          
        Board of Public Service                     
           City of St. Louis                        
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
 St. Louis, Missouri time on JUNE 13, 2006          
 at which time they will be publicly opened         
 and read, viz:                                     
 JOB TITLE: WEST END COMMUNITY                      
 CENTER FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE                    
 SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS                                
 LETTING NO: 8305                                   
 DEPOSIT: $11,625.00                                
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
 President of the Board of Public Service,          
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs                
 may be viewed on BPS website:                      
 http://www.stl-bps.org/contract.asp (BPS           
 Virtual Plan Room).                                
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 FIFTY dollars ($ 50.00 ) for each set.             
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and No Refunds will         
 be made.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the   
 work completed, less a retained amount of        
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including      
 all retained percentages, will be made within    
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and   
 final acceptance by the City.                    
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively   
 insure that in any contract entered into         
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority         
 business enterprises will be afforded full       
 opportunity to submit bids in response to        
 this invitation and will not be discriminated    
 against on the grounds of race, color or national
 origin in consideration for an award. The        
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.       
       The Contract shall provide that not less   
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the  
 City of St. Louis as determined by the           
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
 of workmen needed in the actual construction     
 work on the site of the construction job herein  
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
 be paid to all workmen.                          
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,     
 May 9, 2006.                                     
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Darlene A. Plump                
                  Secretary                       
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
       A public hearing will be held by the       
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
 Wednesday, May 17, 2006, in Room 208 City        
 Hall to consider the following:                  
       APPEAL #8600 - Appeal filed by             
 Engraphix Architectural Signage, from the        
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to install one (1) projecting sign 
 (illuminated) per plans at 1023 Spruce.          
 WARD 7 #AB362134-06 ZONE: "I"                    
 Central Business District                        
      APPEAL #8601 - Appeal filed by B &          
 N Signs, Inc., from the determination of the     
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
erect one (1) projecting sign (illuminated) per  
plans at 701 Pine. WARD 7 #AB365050-06           
ZONE: "I" Central Business District              
      APPEAL #8602 - Appeal filed by             
Edward Jones Investment, from the                
determination of the Building Commissioner       
in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
the Appellant to do interior alterations per     
plans to operate an office at 5350               
Loughborough. WARD12 #AB364237-06                
ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling               
District                                         
     APPEAL #8603 - Appeal filed by New          
Creation Christian Fellowship, from the          
determination of the Building Commissioner       
in the denial of an occupancy permit             
authorizing the Appellant to operate a church    
(150 members) at 3458 Minnesota. WARD            
20 #AO364134-06 ZONE: "B" - Two                  
Family Dwelling District                         
     APPEAL #8604 - Appeal filed by              
Friendly Temple Apartments Phase II, from        
the determination of the Building                
Commissioner in the denial of a building         
permit authorizing the Appellant to construct    
a multi-family dwelling per plans at 5521        
Wells. WARD 22 #AB361382-06 ZONE:                
"C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District          
     APPEAL #8605 - Appeal filed by              
Wholesale Car Masters, from the                  
determination of the Building Commissioner       
in the denial of an occupancy permit             
authorizing the Appellant to have inside         
storage of wholesale cars at 2318 Union (rear    
of building). WARD 18 #AO360737-06               
ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial              
District                                         
     In accordance with the provisions of        
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
    By authority of the Board of                 
Adjustment.                                      
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                     
     PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A public hearing will be held by the       
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
Wednesday, May 24, 2006, in Room 208 City        
Hall to consider the following:                  
       APPEAL #8606 - Appeal filed by F & B      
Properties LLC, from the determination of        
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an    
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a real estate office at 2854 Keokuk   
(1 st Floor). WARD 20 #AO363436-06               
ZONE: "B" Two Family Dwelling District           
     APPEAL #8607 - Appeal filed by Corner       
Stone's Inc., from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an          
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant         
 to operate a fabrication and polish granite stone  
 business and office at 3248 Gravois. WARD          
 9 #AO364893-06                 ZONE: "F"           
 Neighborhood Commercial District                   
       APPEAL #8608 - Appeal filed by Warren        
 Sign Company, from the determination of the        
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install four (4) wall signs and reface one (1)     
 projecting sign per plans at 415 DeBaliviere.      
 WARD 26 #AB362556-06 ZONE:"D" -                    
 Multiple Family Dwelling District "H" -            
 Area Commercial District                           
       APPEAL #8609 - Appeal filed by               
 Warren Sign Company, from the determination        
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of      
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant        
 to install one (1) illuminated wall sign, two      
 (2) non-illuminated wall signs / window            
 graphics and reface one (1) existing projecting    
 sign per plans at 10 Maryland Plaza. WARD          
 28 #AB362560-06 ZONE: "H" - Area                   
 Commercial District                                
       APPEAL #8610 - Appeal filed by Rick          
 Hunter, from the determination of the Board        
 of Public Service in the denial of a subdivision   
 plat authorizing the Appellant to subdivide        
 lots at 6502 West Park. WARD 24 BPS                
 #111186 ZONE: "A" - Single Family                  
 Dwelling District                                  
      In accordance with the provisions of          
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.          
     By authority of the Board of                   
 Adjustment.                                        
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                       
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      A Bed and Breakfast Hearing will be held      
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on              
 Thursday, May 25, 2006, on the following           
 use:                                               
     2422 McNair - #AB363765-06 - Bed               
 & Breakfast Inn (4 Rooms) - "C" - Multiple-        
 Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 7               
    PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held        
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on              
 Thursday, May 25, 2006, on the following           
 conditional uses:                                  
      5449 Murdoch - Home Occupancy                 
 Waiver - Selling Produce (Office Use Only) -       
 "A" - Single-Family Dwelling District. Pmg         
 Ward 16                                            
     2142 E Warne - Home Occupancy              
 Waiver- Lawn Care (Office Use Only) - "B"      
 - Two-Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward       
 3                                              
        3730 Lincoln - Home Occupation          
 Waiver- Home Day Care 10 children/I infant/    
 9 2 1/2 -7-S-S- 6am-12pm - "C" - Multiple-     
 Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 5           
      6605 Clayton - #AO367958-06 - Office      
 Space for Apartment Complex - "D" -            
 Multiple-Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward     
 24                                             
     6823 Gravois - #AO368157-06 - Sit-         
 down Cafe & Full Drink - "F" -Neighborhood     
 Commercial District. Mv Ward 12                
      201 S Skinker - #AO368145-06 -            
 Tutorial Service In Basement of Church - "A"   
 - Single-Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward     
 28                                             
      2131 Marconi - #AO368189-06 -             
 Coffee Shop & Bakery - "F" - Neighborhood      
 Commercial District. Mv Ward 10                
      5815 Hampton - #AO366540-06 - Sit-        
 down/Carryout/Patio Expanding Restaurant       
 - "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District.      
 Mv Ward 16                                     
     4254 Manchester - #AO368669-06 -           
 Barber/Beauty Salon &Tattoo Shop - "G" -       
 Local Commercial and Local District. Mv        
 Ward 17                                        
       3328 Chippewa - #AB367775-06 -           
 Interior & Exterior Alterations Per Plans -    
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District.        
 Pmg Ward 20                                    
     2422 McNair - #AB363765-06 - Interior      
 & Exterior Alterations Per Plans - "C" -       
 Multiple-Family Dwelling District. Pmg         
 Ward 7                                         
     REQUEST FOR                                
      PROPOSALS                                 
       The City of St. Louis, Missouri, acting  
 by and through the Office of the City          
 Counselor, is seeking Proposals from           
 interested parties to provide an automated     
 traffic safety camera system, also known as    
 red light photo enforcement equipment, in      
 order to enhance public safety at intersections
 located within the City of St. Louis, to       
 maintain such system, and to provide related   
 services. To obtain a submittal packet, please 
 contact Peter Mosanyi, II, at 314-622-3366     
 or mosanyip@stlouiscity.com. Proposals         
 Due: June 9, 2006, at 4:30 P.M. CST.           
   PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
     The Housing, Urban Development and           
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of        
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on May        
17, 2006 at 10:00 A.M. in the Kennedy Room        
(208) in City Hall:                               
       BOARD BILL NO. 7                           
         Introduced By                            
  Alderman William Waterhouse                     
     An ordinance establishing and creating a     
Planned Unit Development District for a           
portion of City Block 4613A (also known as        
City Block 4613.01) to be known as the            
"Dogtown Terrace Townhomes Planned Unit           
Development District".                            
         BOARD BILL NO. 20                        
            Introduced By                         
        Alderman Fred Heitert                     
     An ordinance establishing and creating a     
Planned Unit Development District for a           
portion of City Block 6401 to be known as         
the "Boulevard Heights Homes Planned Unit         
Development District".                            
       BOARD BILL NO. 30                          
          Introduced By                           
    Alderman Stephen Conway                       
      An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on March 1, 2006, to          
change the zoning of property as indicated on     
the District Map, from "A" Single-Family          
Dwelling District and "F" Neighborhood            
Commercial District to the "C" Multiple-          
Family Dwelling District in City Block 4065,      
so as to include the described parcel of land in  
City Block 4065; and containing an emergency      
clause.                                           
       BOARD BILL NO. 31                          
         Introduced By                            
  Alderman William Waterhouse                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the              
Planning Commission on April 5, 2006, to          
change the zoning of property as indicated on     
the District Map, from "A" Single-Family          
Dwelling District to the "J" Industrial District  
in City Block 4629, so as to include the          
described parcel of land in City Block 4629;      
and containing an emergency clause.               
        BOARD BILL NO. 40                         
           Introduced By                          
      Alderman Joseph Roddy                       
     An ordinance establishing and creating a     
Planned Unit Development District for a           
portion of City Block 3915 to be known as         
the "4218 West Pine Planned Unit                  
Development District".                            
         BOARD BILL NO. 42                         
            Introduced By                          
       Alderman Terry Kennedy                      
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on April 5, 2006, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, from "C" Multiple-Family        
 Dwelling District and "F" Neighborhood            
 Commercial District to the "H" Area               
 Commercial District in City Block 3922, so        
 as to include the described parcels of land in    
 City Block 3922; and containing an emergency      
 clause.                                           
      Any person wishing to speak for or           
 against the above cited board bill should be      
 present.                                          
 INVITATION TO BID                                 
  Board of Police Commissioners                    
  Metropolitan Police Department                   
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                   
     BID # 210-000068 - SECURITY                   
    CAMERAS AND INSTALLATION                       
        Sealed bids of the above will be received  
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police              
 Department, Office of the Director of             
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.       
 local time, Friday, June 2, 2006 when they        
 will be opened publicly and announced.            
 Official bid forms on which bids must be          
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of      
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective         
 bidders upon request in person or by              
 telephone during regular business hours.          
       Contractor shall not discriminate in        
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,       
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against      
 any employee or applicant for employment          
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national    
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient         
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the          
 contract, and the Board of Police                 
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan       
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover    
 any damages resulting from termination.           
       The Board of Police Commissioners           
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and   
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also        
 reserves the right to consider criteria other     
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.      
 Among other factors, the Board will consider      
 the location of the business, minority interest   
 in the business, prior performance and the bid    
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.     
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.             
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and            
 associated Regulations could apply to the        
 service for which bids are being sought herein.  
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific    
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform    
 work pursuant to a contract executed between     
 the successful bidder and the City must be       
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage     
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term  
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,       
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.  
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage         
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration        
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration 
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with     
 the contract provisions related to the Living    
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of      
 the contract and the imposition of additional    
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and        
 Regulations.                                     
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,   
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at http://    
 www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.                  
      CAROL SHEPARD                               
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                      
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                         
 INVITATION TO BID                                
  Board of Police Commissioners                   
  Metropolitan Police Department                  
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
           BID # 691-000047                       
     FIBER OPTIC INSTALLATION                     
       Sealed bids of the above will be received  
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
 Department, Office of the Director of            
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
 local time, Friday, June 9, 2006 when they       
 will be opened publicly and announced.           
 Official bid forms on which bids must be         
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of     
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective        
 bidders upon request in person or by             
 telephone during regular business hours.         
       Contractor shall not discriminate in       
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
 any employee or applicant for employment         
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
 contract, and the Board of Police                
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
 any damages resulting from termination.          
      The Board of Police Commissioners           
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
reserves the right to consider criteria other      
than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
Among other factors, the Board will consider       
the location of the business, minority interest    
in the business, prior performance and the bid     
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
associated Regulations could apply to the          
service for which bids are being sought herein.    
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
work pursuant to a contract executed between       
the successful bidder and the City must be         
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
the contract provisions related to the Living      
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
the contract and the imposition of additional      
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
Regulations.                                       
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,     
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
     CAROL SHEPARD                                 
     DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                        
     PHONE# 314-444-5608                           
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                              
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any              
individual or company who performs work            
within the City limits must obtain a Business      
License. This would also apply to businesses       
who employ sales or delivery personnel to          
come into the City. Contracts requiring work       
to be performed in the City will NOT be            
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                  
Please contact the License Collector,              
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,           
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may             
also refer to our on-line site at                  
www.stlouiscity.com.                               
ST. LOUIS LIVING                                   
WAGE ORDINANCE                                     
  LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                         
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that       
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597         
and associated Regulations apply to the            
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
 contract executed between the successful          
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
 adjusted during the term of the contract          
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
 to submit this Declaration with the bid           
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
 [proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
 provisions related to the Living Wage             
 Ordinance may result in termination of the        
 contract and the imposition of additional         
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
 Regulations.                                      
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from La Queta          
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be      
 accessed at http://www.stlouiscity. com/living    
 wage.                                             
    SUPPLY                                         
 COMMISSIONER                                      
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,                
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,               
 May 16, 2006 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be            
 received by the undersigned to be opened at       
 the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items   
 listed below on the dates specified.              
         Notice to All Suppliers                   
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
 employment practices that are in accordance       
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis      
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated       
 there-under to the end that all Contractors       
 and suppliers of materials and services will      
 offer equal opportunity for employment and        
 job advancement to blacks and other minority      
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.        
             Requesting a Bid                      
 To have a bid mailed or faxed to you, please      
 contact the Supply Commissioner's office at       
 (314) 622-4580.                                   
      THURSDAY, MAY 18, 2006                   
 SURPLUS LAB XRAY MACHINE &                    
 KODAK PROCESSOR FOR SALE                      
 per condemnation #S06-67A.                    
 SURPLUS WOODEN BENCHES (10                    
  FT.) & HOBART REFRIGERATOR                   
         (5 DOOR W/LOCKS)                      
              FOR SALE                         
 per condemnation #S06-67B.                    
        SURPLUS COPIERS &                      
       COMPUTERS FOR SALE                      
 per condemnation #S06-68.                     
          SURPLUS                              
  COMPUTER CABINET, ANTIQUE                    
  CABINET & BLUE CANE CHAIR                    
          FOR SALE                             
 per condemnation #S06-69.                     
     WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7, 2006                   
    SWIMMING POOL CHLORINE                     
 for furnishing the Recreation Division per    
 Req. #50.                                     
          TYPE XLP                             
  UNDERGROUND WIRE RHW/RHH                     
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.    
 #1770.                                        
         CONTRACT FOR                          
      ODOR CONTROL SYSTEM                      
 for a period of two (2) years from date of    
 award.                                        
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
