       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2007-2008                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
  Friday, September 28, 2007.     
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen      
 Chambers September 28, 2007.                 
      The roll was called and the following   
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,    
 Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin, Triplett, Young,
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,    
 Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy,  
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, King, Boyd,          
 Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,    
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 28       
      "Almighty God, source of all authority, 
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations  
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."        
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                       
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                   
      None.                                   
          INTRODUCTION OF                     
          HONORED GUESTS                      
      None.                                   
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                    
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the         
 minutes for September 21, 2007.              
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                  
         Report of the Clerk                  
     of the Board of Aldermen                 
      To the President of the Board of        
 Aldermen:                                    
      I wish to report that on the 24th day of
 September, 2007, I delivered to the Office of
the Mayor of the City of St. Louis the             
following board bills that were truly agreed to    
and finally adopted.                               
           Board Bill No. 143                      
      An      ordinance       approving        a   
Redevelopment Plan for the 518-22 N.               
Newstead Avenue Area ("Area") after finding        
that the Area is blighted as defined in Section    
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,        
2000, as amended, (the "Statute" being             
Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),              
containing a description of the boundaries of      
said Area in the City of St. Louis ("City"),       
attached hereto and incorporated herein as         
Exhibit "A", finding that redevelopment and        
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of   
the public health, safety, morals and general      
welfare of the people of the City; approving       
the Plan, dated May 22, 2007, for the Area         
("Plan"), incorporated herein by attached          
Exhibit "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;           
finding that there is a feasible financial plan    
for the development of the Area which affords      
maximum opportunity for development of the         
Area by private enterprise; finding that no        
property in the Area may be acquired by the        
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority         
of the City of St. Louis ("LCRA") through          
the exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;       
finding that the property within the Area is       
unoccupied, but if it should become occupied,      
the Redeveloper shall be responsible for           
relocating any eligible occupants displaced as     
a result of implementation of the Plan; finding    
that financial aid may be necessary to enable      
the Area to be redeveloped in accordance with      
the Plan; finding that there shall be available    
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and       
pledging cooperation of the Board of               
Aldermen and requesting various officials,         
departments, boards and agencies of the City       
to cooperate and to exercise their respective      
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.       
           Board Bill No. 164                      
     An ordinance recommended by the Board         
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights  
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel      
in a 32'  2' portion of the 15' wide north/        
south alley in City Block 5473 as bounded by       
Wilson, Sulphur, Elizabeth and Esther              
beginning south of the northern 105'  2' of        
the 15 foot wide north/south alley in the same     
City Block previously vacated by Ordinance         
66261 in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as       
hereinafter described, in accordance with          
Charter authority, and in conformity with          
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and       
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.      
           Board Bill No. 172                      
     An Ordinance recommended by the               
Planning Commission on June 6, 2007, to            
change the zoning of property as indicated on      
 the District Map, from "A" Single-Family          
 Dwelling District in City Block 4083 to "F"       
 Neighborhood Commercial District, so as to        
 include the described parcel of land in City      
 Block 4083; and containing an emergency           
 clause.                                           
      Denise Watson-Wesley Coleman, Clerk          
      Board of Aldermen                            
           Office of the Mayor                     
      None.                                        
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                        
      None.                                        
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                        
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                            
      None.                                        
          BOARD BILLS FOR                          
           THIRD READING                           
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                        
            RESOLUTIONS                            
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                        
            FIRST READING                          
            OF BOARD BILLS                         
 Board Members Schmid and Ortmann                  
 introduced by request:                            
            Board Bill No. 309                     
       An Ordinance, recommended by the            
 Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis  
 (the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a   
 public works and improvement project for          
 the design and construction of the Cherokee       
 Enhancement Project between Nebraska              
 Avenue and Jefferson Avenue (the "Cherokee        
 Enhancement Project"); and authorizing and        
 directing the City of St. Louis (the "City"),     
 by and through its Board of Public Service, to    
 let contracts and provide for the design,         
 construction, materials, and equipment for the    
 Cherokee Enhancement Project, authorizing         
 the Board of Public Service to employ labor       
 and consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,    
 acquire real property interests, and to enter     
 into supplemental agreements with the             
 Missouri Highway and Transportation               
 Commission,          Federal         Highway      
 Administration, utilities, and other              
 governmental agencies for the Cherokee            
 Enhancement Project all in accordance with        
 the federal Transportation Equity Act for the     
 21st Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with       
 any contract containing sections for:             
 description of the work, material guarantees,     
 estimated expenditure allocations, fund           
 reversion authorization, applicable federal and   
 state wage rate requirements, equal               
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's              
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising       
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for   
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with   
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and    
 approved by the Board of Public Service before   
 bids are advertised therefore; directing that all
 construction contracts let by authority of this  
 Ordinance provide for federal and state          
 prevailing wages requirements including          
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and     
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the   
 State of Missouri, the City Charter and the      
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;            
 requiring all specifications approved by the     
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by     
 authority of this Ordinance provide for          
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders     
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/            
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when           
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state     
 law or regulation; requiring all advertisements  
 for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject   
 to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as     
 amended; and appropriating the total             
 estimated cost of the Cherokee Enhancement       
 Project of One Million, Four Hundred             
 Thousand Dollars ($1,400,000.00) from            
 various sources including the Federal Highway    
 Administration Safe, Accountable, Flexible,      
 Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy    
 for Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half         
 Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;              
 authorizing and directing the Comptroller of     
 the City to draw warrants from time to time      
 and disburse funds appropriated by this          
 ordinance and to receive and disburse grant      
 funds in accordance with the Transportation      
 Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.        
 110, et seq.) upon the signature and             
 certification of vouchers by the President of    
 the Board of Public Service; and containing a    
 public work emergency clause.                    
 Board Member Baringer introduced by              
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 310                    
       An Ordinance, recommended by the           
 Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis 
 (the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a  
 public works and improvement project for         
 the design and construction of the "Hampton      
 and Nottingham Intersection Improvement          
 Project"; and authorizing and directing the      
 City of St. Louis (the "City"), by and through   
 its Board of Public Service, to let contracts    
 and provide for the design, construction,        
 materials, and equipment for the Hampton         
 and Nottingham Intersection Improvement          
 Project, authorizing the Board of Public Service 
 to employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,   
 fees and wages, acquire real property interests, 
 and to enter into supplemental agreements        
 with the Missouri Highway and                    
 Transportation Commission, Federal               
Highway Administration, utilities, and other       
governmental agencies for the Hampton and          
Nottingham Intersection Improvement Project        
all in accordance with the federal                 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st             
Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with any         
contract containing sections for: description      
of the work, material guarantees, estimated        
expenditure allocations, fund reversion            
authorization, applicable federal and state        
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity          
provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,          
and contract advertising statutes; requiring that  
all work provided for herein shall be carried      
out in accordance with detailed plans and          
specifications adopted and approved by the         
Board of Public Service before bids are            
advertised therefor; directing that all            
construction contracts let by authority of this    
Ordinance provide for federal and state            
prevailing wages requirements including            
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and       
compliance with all applicable statutes of the     
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the        
Revised Code of the City, as amended;              
requiring all specifications approved by the       
Board of Public Service and contracts let by       
authority of this Ordinance provide for            
compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders       
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/              
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when             
superseded or prohibited by federal or state       
law or regulation; requiring all advertisements    
for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject     
to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as       
amended; and appropriating the total               
estimated cost of the Hampton and                  
Nottingham Intersection Improvement Project        
of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars                  
($300,000.00) from various sources including       
the Federal Highway Administration Safe,           
Accountable,         Flexible,        Efficient    
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for            
Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half               
Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;                
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of       
the City to draw warrants from time to time        
and disburse funds appropriated by this            
ordinance and to receive and disburse grant        
funds in accordance with the Transportation        
Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.          
110, et seq.) upon the signature and               
certification of vouchers by the President of      
the Board of Public Service; and containing a      
public work emergency clause.                      
Board Member Bosley introduced by                  
request:                                           
           Board Bill No. 311                      
      An Ordinance, recommended by the             
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis   
(the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a    
public works and improvement project for           
the design and construction of the Salisbury       
 Street Enhancement Project, Phase 2 between       
 North Florissant Avenue and 11th Street (the      
 "Salisbury Street Enhancement Project - Phase     
 2"); and authorizing and directing the City of    
 St. Louis (the "City"), by and through its        
 Board of Public Service, to let contracts and     
 provide for the design, construction, materials,  
 and equipment for the Salisbury Street            
 Enhancement Project - Phase 2, authorizing        
 the Board of Public Service to employ labor       
 and consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,    
 acquire real property interests, and to enter     
 into supplemental agreements with the             
 Missouri Highway and Transportation               
 Commission,           Federal        Highway      
 Administration, utilities, and other              
 governmental agencies for the Salisbury Street    
 Enhancement Project - Phase 2 all in              
 accordance with the federal Transportation        
 Equity Act for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.        
 110, et seq.), with any contract containing       
 sections for: description of the work, material   
 guarantees, estimated expenditure allocations,    
 fund reversion authorization, applicable          
 federal and state wage rate requirements, equal   
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's              
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising        
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for    
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with    
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and     
 approved by the Board of Public Service before    
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all  
 construction contracts let by authority of this   
 Ordinance provide for federal and state           
 prevailing wages requirements including           
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and      
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the    
 State of Missouri, the City Charter and the       
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;             
 requiring all specifications approved by the      
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by      
 authority of this Ordinance provide for           
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders      
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/             
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when            
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state      
 law or regulation; requiring all advertisements   
 for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject    
 to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as      
 amended; and appropriating the total              
 estimated cost of the Salisbury Street            
 Enhancement Project - Phase 2 of One              
 Million, Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand           
 Dollars ($1,250,000.00) from various sources      
 including the Federal Highway Administration      
 Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient            
 Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for           
 Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half              
 Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;               
 authorizing and directing the Comptroller of      
 the City to draw warrants from time to time       
 and disburse funds appropriated by this           
 ordinance and to receive and disburse grant       
 funds in accordance with the Transportation       
 Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.      
 110, et seq.) upon the signature and           
 certification of vouchers by the President of  
 the Board of Public Service; and containing a  
 public work emergency clause.                  
 Board Member Young introduced by               
 request:                                       
            Board Bill No. 312                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the          
 Parking Commission of the City of St. Louis    
 and authorizing and directing the City, acting 
 through the Treasurer of the City in his       
 capacity as supervisor of Parking Meters, to   
 issue Parking Revenue Bonds, Series 2007A      
 (Tax-Except) and Series 2007B (Taxable) in     
 an aggregate principal amount to to exceed     
 $18,000,000; setting forth certain terms and   
 conditions relative to such bonds; appointing  
 a Trustee, Bond Registrar and Paying Agent     
 in connection with the Bonds; approving and    
 authorizing the execution of Supplemental      
 Trust Indenture No.. 2, A First Amendment      
 to Continuing Disclosure Agreement and a Tax   
 Compliance Agreement; authorizing the          
 negotiated sale of the Bonds and the execution 
 and delivery of a Bond Purchase Contract;      
 authorizing the preparation and distribution   
 of the preliminary official statement and the  
 preparation, execution and distribution of the 
 official statement respecting the Bonds and    
 the taking of further actions with respect     
 thereto; the taking of other actions, and the  
 execution and approval of other documents,     
 as are necessary or desirable to carry out and 
 comply with the intent hereof and to comply    
 with the duties of the City under any agreement
 for Bond Insurance; authorizing the            
 reimbursement of certain amounts previously    
 expended on the project to be financed with    
 the proceeds of the Bonds; and containing a    
 severability clause and an emergency clause.   
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                      
        OF BOARD BILLS                          
           Convention and Tourism               
                   None.                        
     Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions         
                   None.                        
         Health and Human Services              
                   None.                        
  Housing, Urban Development and Zoning         
                  None.                         
          Intergovernmental Affairs             
                   None.                        
                  Legislation                   
                    None.                       
         Neighborhood Development               
                  None.                         
      Parks and Environmental Matters           
                  None.                         
        Personnel and Administration              
                   None.                          
              Public Employees                    
                    None.                         
                Public Safety                     
                   None.                          
               Public Utilities                   
                   None.                          
         Streets, Traffic and Refuse              
        Board Bills No. 309, 310 and 311.         
       Transportation and Commerce                
                   None.                          
              Ways and Means                      
             Board Bill No. 312.                  
      Board Bills No. 304 and 307 were            
removed out of the Housing, Urban                 
Development & Zoning Committee and placed         
in the Ways & Means Committee.                    
        SECOND READING                            
         AND REPORT OF                            
      STANDING COMMITTEES                         
    Mr. Conway of the Ways & Means                
Committee submitted the following report          
which was read.                                   
     Board of Aldermen Committee Report,          
September 28, 2007                                
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
     The Committee on Ways & Means to             
whom was referred the following Board Bills,      
report that they have considered the same and     
recommend adoption.                               
           Board Bill No. 233                     
      An ordinance approving the petition of      
1405 Pine, LLC, as owner of certain real          
property, to establish a Community                
Improvement District, establishing the 1401       
Pine Community Improvement District,              
finding a public purpose for the establishment    
of the 1401 Pine Community Improvement            
District, and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 240                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
consideration of the sum of Eight Thousand        
Sixty-Nine Dollars ($8,069.00) and other good     
and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed     
to remise, release and forever quit-claim unto    
Fourteenth Street Mall Associates, L.P., certain  
City-owned property located in City Block         
1114, which property is known as 1410             
Warren Street, and containing an emergency        
clause.                                           
           Board Bill No. 293                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
 Louis to execute a lease of City-owned           
 property located in City Block 436 to Cannon     
 Design Powerhouse, LLC, for a period of          
 Fifteen (15) years with Two (2) additional       
 Five (5) year options for renewal at lessee's    
 request; and containing an emergency clause.     
      Alderman Conway                             
      Chairman of the Committee                   
      Ms. Young of the Transportation &           
 Commerce Committee submitted the                 
 following report which was read.                 
      Board of Aldermen Committee Report,         
 September 28, 2007                               
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
      The Committee on Transportation &           
 Commerce to whom was referred the                
 following Board Bills, report that they have     
 considered the same and recommend adoption.      
            Board Bill No. 239                    
      An ordinance recommended by the Port        
 Authority Commission of the City of St.          
 Louis authorizing and directing the Mayor and    
 the Comptroller to enter into a lease agreement  
 between the City of St. Louis and the United     
 States of America by and through its agency      
 the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for nine        
 hundred and seventy-five feet (975') of          
 mooring rights on the Unimproved Public          
 Wharf for a period of five (5) years             
 commencing on the date of execution in           
 substantially the form attached hereto and       
 incorporated by reference herein as Exhibit 1    
 and containing an emergency clause.              
            Board Bill No. 258                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and the       
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of    
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the  
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on        
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement     
 offered by the United States of America (the     
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the           
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United    
 States Department of Transportation, the         
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-      
 29-0085-103-2007, dated August 3, 2007, for      
 a maximum federal obligation of Four Million     
 Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars                   
 ($4,800,000), which is filed in the Office of    
 the City Register [Comptroller Document No.      
 56004], for the reimbursement of direct costs    
 associated with 14 CFR Part 150 Noise            
 Compatibility Study, Master Plan Update          
 (Phase II); and containing an emergency clause.  
            Board Bill No. 259                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and           
 the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,         
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator       
 of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R),   
 in accepting and executing on behalf of the      
 City a certain grant agreement offered by the    
 United States of America (the "Grant             
 Agreement"), acting through the Federal          
 Aviation Administration of the United States     
 Department of Transportation, the Grant          
 Agreement being for Project Number 3-29-         
 0085-104-2007, dated June 21, 2007, for a        
 maximum federal obligation of Six Million        
 Five Hundred Fifty Five Thousand Eight           
 Hundred Seventy Four Dollars ($6,555,874),       
 which is filed in the Office of the City Register
 [Comptroller Document No. 55836], for the        
 reimbursement of land acquired in fee for W-     
 1W noise mitigation within 70-74 DNL             
 (Phase 4); and containing an emergency clause.   
            Board Bill No. 260                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and           
 the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,         
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator       
 of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R),   
 in accepting and executing on behalf of the      
 City a certain grant agreement offered by the    
 United States of America (the "Grant             
 Agreement"), acting through the Federal          
 Aviation Administration of the United States     
 Department of Transportation, the Grant          
 Agreement being for Project Number 3-29-         
 0085-105-2007, dated June 21, 2007, for a        
 maximum federal obligation of Three Million      
 Eight Hundred Forty Thousand Dollars             
 ($3,840,000), which is filed in the Office of    
 the City Register [Comptroller Document No.      
 55837], for the reimbursement of direct costs    
 associated with Noise Mitigation Acoustical      
 Program for residencies within 65-69 DNL         
 (Phase 6); and containing an emergency clause.   
            Board Bill No. 261                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and           
 the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,         
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator       
 of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)    
 (the "Airport"), in accepting and executing      
 on behalf of the City a certain grant agreement  
 offered by the United States of America (the     
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the           
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United    
 States Department of Transportation, the         
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-      
29-0085-106-2007, dated August 17, 2007,         
for a maximum federal obligation of Six Million  
Dollars ($6,000,000), which is filed in the      
Office of the City Register [Comptroller         
Document No. 56038], for the reimbursement       
of direct costs associated with Security         
Enhancement- Perimeter Fencing; and              
containing an emergency clause.                  
           Board Bill No. 262                    
      An ordinance recommended and               
approved by the Airport Commission and the       
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of    
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R), in   
accepting and executing on behalf of the City    
a certain grant agreement offered by the United  
States of America (the "Grant Agreement"),       
acting through the Federal Aviation              
Administration of the United States              
Department of Transportation, the Grant          
Agreement being for Project Number 3-29-         
0085-107-2007, dated July 25, 2007, for a        
maximum federal obligation of Two Million        
Four Hundred Forty One Thousand Seven            
Hundred Twelve Dollars ($2,441,712), which       
is filed in the Office of the City Register      
[Comptroller Document No. 55953], for the        
reimbursement of direct costs associated with    
rehabilitating Taxiway Foxtrot, Phase 2; and     
containing an emergency clause.                  
     Alderwoman Young                            
     Chairman of the Committee                   
           REPORT OF                             
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                        
     None.                                       
           PERFECTION                            
        CONSENT CALENDAR                         
     None.                                       
            BOARD BILLS                          
           FOR PERFECTION                        
     None.                                       
          THIRD READING                          
        CONSENT CALENDAR                         
     None.                                       
  THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
     AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
       OF BOARD BILLS                            
     None.                                       
        REPORT OF THE                            
    ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                         
     None.                                       
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                          
     President Reed moved to move                 
 Resolution No. 171 from the Courtesy             
 Resolutions Calendar to First Reading of         
 Resolutions Calendar.                            
      Seconded by Ms. Jones King.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
      President Reed introduced Resolutions       
 No. 167 through 170 and 172, and the Clerk       
 was instructed to read same.                     
           Resolution No. 167                     
  GARDEN DISTRICT COMMISSION                      
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised             
 that the Garden District Commission will be      
 celebrating its 10th Anniversary at the Growing  
 Together - A Garden District Celebration on      
 September 29, 2007; and                          
       WHEREAS, the Garden District               
 Commission (GDC) was organized in 1997           
 with a mission to promote investment and         
 revitalization in the Botanical Heights, Shaw,   
 Southwest        Garden       and    Tiffany     
 neighborhoods; and                               
       WHEREAS, the formation of the GDC          
 was the outcome of an unprecedented public       
 planning process that engaged neighborhood       
 residents from all walks of life to help form    
 the future of their community; and               
      WHEREAS, the citizen volunteers who         
 have guided the GDC have devoted countless       
 hours of their time to work for the betterment   
 of their neighborhoods and the City of St.       
 Louis; and                                       
      WHEREAS, the GDC has generated              
 over $46 million of funding and investment in    
 the neighborhoods that it serves and was the     
 catalyst for the development of 140 new          
 single-family homes in Botanical Heights by      
 McBride & Son Homes; and                         
      NOW THERFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations       to    recognize       the    
 accomplishments of the Garden District           
 Commission on the occasion of its 10 th          
 Anniversary, and we thank the men and            
 women of the GDC who have dedicated their        
 time and work over the span of a decade to       
 promote city living and neighborhood             
 revitalization, and wish them continued          
 success in the future and we direct the Clerk    
 of the Board to spread a copy of this            
 Resolution across the minutes of these           
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that is may be presented to      
 our Honoree at a time and placed deemed          
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 28th day of September, 2007   
 by:                                             
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Aldermen 17th Ward       
           Resolution No. 168                    
    Prostate Cancer Awareness Month              
       WHEREAS, cancer of the prostate is        
 the most common type of cancer (other than      
 skin cancer) among all American men; and        
      WHEREAS, more than 180,000 new             
 cases of prostate cancer are diagnosed each     
 year and more than 30,000 men die from          
 prostate cancer each year; and                  
       WHEREAS, local organizations,             
 physicians and community advocates are          
 actively bringing awareness for prostate cancer 
 screening and promoting healthier lifestyles;   
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, Dr. Arnold D. Bullock,            
 M.D., Mr. Mellve Shahid, Lane Tabernacle C      
 M E Church Health Ministry, New Sunny           
 Mount Missionary Baptist Church Health          
 Ministry, West Central Church of Christ         
 Health Ministry, Siteman Cancer Center,         
 American Cancer Society, People s Health        
 Centers and 100 Black Men of Metropolitan       
 St. Louis are actively involved in the fight    
 against this terrible disease ; and             
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize September as         
 Prostate Cancer Awareness Month and we          
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree at a time and       
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 28th day of September, 2007   
 by:                                             
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President              
 St. Louis City Board of Aldermen                
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward 
 Honorable Dionnne Flowers, Alderwoman 2nd Ward  
 Honorable Dorothy Kirner, Alderwoman 25th Ward  
           Resolution No. 169                    
       WHEREAS, Fr. Charles E. Bouchard,         
 O.P. is retiring as President of the Aquinas    
 Institute of Theology after serving in that role
 for eighteen years; and                         
       WHEREAS, during his tenure as             
 President, he lead the growth of the school     
 from 100 students to over 300 students; from    
 an annual budget of $400,000 to a budget of     
 $2 million; from offering three degree programs 
 to eight degree and four certificate programs;  
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, Fr. Bouchard is a sought           
after speaker locally and nationally, helping     
individuals of all faiths make sense of the       
complex moral issues facing us in the 21st        
century; and                                      
      WHEREAS, Fr. Bouchard's vision of a         
physical space conducive to a learning            
community and accessible to those who seek        
to better know and understand their faith was     
realized with the renovation of an obsolete       
manufacturing building at 23 S. Spring in the     
City of St. Louis; and                            
     WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen of            
the City of St. Louis joins the family, friends,  
and colleagues of Fr. Charles Bouchard in         
thanking him for his many contributions and       
wishing him well in his new endeavors.            
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis, meeting in regular         
session, that we recognize, congratulate and      
honor Fr. Charles E. Bouchard, for his            
accomplishments in education as President of      
the Aquinas Institute of Theology, and            
dedication to the kingdom of God and the City,    
and we further direct the Clerk of the Board      
of Aldermen to spread a copy of this              
Resolution across the minutes of this             
proceeding and to prepare a commemorative         
copy to the end that it may be presented to       
our honoree at a time and place deemed            
appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
Introduced on the 28th day of September, 2007     
by:                                               
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward         
          Resolution No. 170                      
        VASHON HIGH SCHOOL                        
     WHEREAS, This honorable Board of             
Aldermen of the City of St. Louis has been        
apprised that Vashon High School will be          
celebrating its 80th year in the education of     
our children from 1927 to 2007. Vashon High       
School, located at 3026 Laclede Avenue, was       
opened in September of 1927 at a cost of          
$1,800,000. During these first years, it housed   
grades 7-12. In 1930 it became a four year        
high school; and                                  
      WHEREAS, In 1922 a group of                 
conscientious citizens, under the leadership      
of Reverend George E. Stevens of Central          
Baptist Church, along with various other civic    
organizations finally convinced the St. Louis     
Board of Education of the great need for a        
high school to be built east of Grand Avenue      
for Black students. It was quite fitting that     
one of our elementary schools would be named      
after the Reverend George E. Stevens; and         
      WHEREAS, Vashon was named for two           
illustrious educators, Mr. George B. Vashon       
 and Mr. John B. Vashon, who were father and      
 son. The elementary school that previously       
 carried the name of George B. Vashon only,       
 and was located in a two-family flat at 5324-    
 26 Northrup, grew into a four year high school   
 at 3026 Laclede Avenue and carried the names     
 of both George B. Vashon and John B. Vashon      
 to its next location 3405 Bell Avenue. The       
 building on Northrup remains and has become      
 a residence again; and                           
       WHEREAS, The first principal was           
 James W. Meyers, followed by Frank L.            
 Williams, Mr. William G. Mosley, Mr. C.          
 Spencer Tocus, Dr. A.C. Phillips, Mr. John E.    
 Anderson, Dr. Julius C. Dix, Mr. Ralph           
 Wardlow, Mr. Cozy W. Marks, Jr., Mr.             
 Michael K. Thomas, Mr. Floyd Irons, Mr.          
 Cozy W. Marks. Mr. Ivory Lofton, Mr.             
 William O. Baldwin, Mr. Floyd Irons, Ms.         
 Dorothy Ludgood (first female), Mr. Floyd        
 Irons, Ms. Verona Bowers, Mr. Calvin Starks      
 and most recently Ms. Barbara L. Sharp has       
 been added to a long list of dynamic             
 individuals. It is interesting to note that Dr.  
 Julius Dix, Mr. Cozy Marks, Mr. Floyd Irons,     
 Mr. Ivory Lofton and Mr. William Baldwin         
 are all graduates of Vashon High School; and     
       WHEREAS, Vashon's history is written       
 by many outstanding alumni. One of the           
 earliest being Lloyd Gaines whose test lawsuit   
 to enter the University of Missouri Law          
 School went all the way to the Supreme Court;    
 Vitilas "Veto" Reid, who is still the first and  
 only person to have a Post Office named for      
 him while he is alive; Elston Howard of the      
 New York Yankees; Bob Beeks who was only         
 the second Black official in the NFL (class of   
 '44); United States Congresswoman Maxine         
 Waters who keeps up with the exploits of her     
 Vashon Family; and                               
       WHEREAS, Vashon's first school             
 newspaper was the Herald, and the yearbook       
 Vashalma evolved into the Wolverine, and our     
 beloved school song "Vashon We Love" was         
 composed by faculty member Otto L.               
 Bohanon; There were only 20 students in the      
 first graduating class, but through the years    
 that followed Vashon has prepared and            
 graduated thousands of students in many          
 classes.                                         
        NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED of the City of St. Louis meeting        
 in regular session, that we pause in our         
 deliberation to recognize the accomplishments    
 and congratulate Vashon High School in its       
 new location at 3035 Cass Avenue, along with     
 the On To Victory Vashon United Alumni           
 Association as President Mr. Cozy Marks          
 extends an invitation to one and all to join in  
 the "80th Year" Celebration on October 5th and   
 6 th at the Airport Hilton for a two-day         
 celebration of renewing old friendships. We        
 further direct the Clerk to prepare a              
 commemorative copy to that end that it may         
 be presented to our honorees at a time and         
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.           
 Introduced on the 28th day of September, 2007      
 by:                                                
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis, Alderman 19th Ward     
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President Board ofAlderman
 Honorable Charles Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward         
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward       
 Honorable Matt Villa,Alderman 11th Ward            
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward       
 Honorable Craig N. Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward       
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward    
 HonorableKathleenHanrahan,Alderwoman23rd Ward      
 Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward    
 Honorable Dorothy Kirner,Alderwoman 25th Ward      
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward        
            Resolution No. 172                      
      WHEREAS, it is with the utmost                
 respect that the members of the Board of           
 Alderman of the City of St. Louis, Missouri,       
 pause in their daily legislative endeavors in      
 order to recognize the retirement of a St. Louis   
 resident who embodies the concept of a             
 "model citizen" through his deeds and              
 achievements; and                                  
      WHEREAS, Tom Corbett of the                   
 Dogtown neighborhood, has attained                 
 considerable distinction as a printer for the      
 St. Louis Post Dispatch; and                       
       WHEREAS, Tom Corbett has mastered            
 his field of printing throughout his more than     
 forty years of employment as a union printer;      
 and                                                
       WHEREAS, Tom Corbett has shown               
 his loyalty to other printers through his          
 constant membership in his local union             
 including holding the title of Shop Steward up     
 until the time of his retirement; and              
      WHEREAS, Tom Corbett is a deeply              
 engaged citizen in his local neighborhood          
 through his membership in the 24th Ward            
 Regular Democratic Organization, the               
 Dogtown Historical Society and the Tamm            
 Avenue/ Clayton Neighborhood Association;          
 and                                                
      WHEREAS, Tom Corbett is the beloved           
 husband of Lucy Corbett and the proud father       
 of two daughters, Tammy and Mary and is a          
 grandfather and uncle to many who love him;        
 and                                                
       WHEREAS, Tom Corbett is known in             
 Dogtown and one of the kindest, most helpful       
 and fair individuals who shares his                
 graciousness with all individuals regardless of    
 their social status and dishes out the best root   
 beer floats to all who will brave their calorific  
content.                                           
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT                        
RESOLVED, that we the members of the St.           
Louis Board of Alderman, join unanimously          
to applaud the well deserved retirement of         
Tom Corbett, and to extend upon him this           
legislative body's most heartfelt                  
congratulations and well wishes for a great        
future in his leisure years and that the Clerk     
of the St. Louis Board of Alderman be              
instructed to prepare a properly inscribed         
copy of this resolution in honor of the            
retirement of Tom Corbett.                         
Introduced on the 28th day of September, 2007      
by:                                                
Honorable William Waterhouse, Alderman 24th Ward   
     Unanimous consent having been                 
obtained, Resolutions No. 167, 168, 169, 170,      
and 172, stood considered.                         
      President Reed moved that Resolutions        
No.167, 168, 169, 170, and 172, be adopted         
at this meeting of the Board.                      
     Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
            FIRST READING                          
           OF RESOLUTIONS                          
      Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.        
171, and the Clerk was instructed to read same.    
           Resolution No. 171                      
     WHEREAS, This honorable Board of              
Aldermen of the City of St. Louis has been         
apprised of the upcoming festivities planned       
to honor the many years of service and             
contributions of Fire Chief Sherman George;        
and                                                
     WHEREAS, Chief George was                     
appointed as this City's first African-            
American Fire Chief under the administration       
of Mayor Clarence Harmon in November of            
1999 thus making history due to Chief George       
s many years of stellar service to this city;      
and                                                
      WHEREAS, Joining the St. Louis Fire          
Department in November of 1967, Chief              
George has served this community as a fire         
fighter for soon to be 40 years, and under the     
leadership of Fire Chief George, the St. Louis     
Fire Department has excelled as one of the         
country s finest fire departments; and             
     WHEREAS, Chief George has made it a           
part of his duties to personally attend and        
support numerous community festivals,              
functions, trainings and activities, to assist in  
community emergency training and fire              
prevention efforts and implement programs          
and services to help the indigent and the elderly  
above and beyond the call of duty; and             
      WHEREAS, During these lean years of            
 the City s budgetary problems, Chief George         
 has actively sought out and secured numerous        
 private donations and public grants to not only     
 continue the present fine level of service to       
 the City but to expand several areas while          
 other city departments had to cut back              
 services; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Chief George has served              
 on many commissions and boards; was an              
 instructor at the St. Louis Fire Academy; was       
 an adjunct instructor at Carl Holmes Executive      
 Institute at Florida A & M; was a sergeant in       
 the United States Army; attended the John F.        
 Kennedy School of Government at Harvard             
 University; and has received numerous awards        
 and commendations too extensive to be               
 enumerated in this one resolution.                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
 deliberations to recognize the many years of        
 fine service that Fire Chief Sherman George         
 has provided to this City of St. Louis and by       
 adoption of this resolution joins in the            
 festivities planned to honor his work and           
 achievements, and we direct the Clerk of this       
 Board to prepare a commemorative copy of            
 this Resolution to the end that it may be           
 presented to our honorees at a time and place       
 deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.                  
 Introduced on the 28th day of September,            
 2007 by:                                            
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward           
 Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1st Ward    
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward        
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman, 3rd Ward    
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman, 4th Ward        
 HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman, 5th Ward    
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman, 6th Ward  
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman, 7th Ward        
 Honorable Stephen Conway,Alderman, 8th Ward         
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward         
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman, 10th Ward        
 Honorable Matt Villa,Alderman, 11th Ward            
 Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman, 12th Ward          
 Honorable Fred Wessels,Alderman, 13th Ward          
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman, 14th Ward       
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman, 15th Ward    
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman, 16th Ward      
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman, 17th Ward          
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman, 19th Ward       
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman, 20th Ward          
 Honorable Bennice Jones King,Alderwoman, 21stWard   
 Honorable Jeffrey Boyd,Alderman, 22nd Ward          
 Honorable Kathleen Hanrahan, Alderwoman, 23rd Ward  
 Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman, 24th Ward    
 Honorable Dorothy Kirner,Alderwoman, 25th Ward      
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman, 26th Ward      
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman, 27th Ward     
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman, 28th Ward        
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President Board ofAlderman
      Unanimous consent having been                 
 obtained, Resolution No. 171 stood                 
 considered.                                        
      Mr. Kennedy moved to pass Resolution          
 No. 171 enbanc.                                    
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                      
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
            SECOND READING                          
            OF RESOLUTIONS                          
       None.                                        
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                           
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                         
       None.                                        
            ANNOUNCEMENTS                           
       None.                                        
          EXCUSED ALDERMEN                          
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the               
 following alderman due to her necessary            
 absence: Ms. Flowers.                              
               ADJOURNMENT                          
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under the       
 rules to return October 5, 2007.                   
       Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                     
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
       Respectfully submitted,                      
       Denise Watson-Wesley Coleman, Clerk          
       Board of Aldermen                            
           BOARD OF                                 
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                     
           REGULAR MEETING                          
    St. Louis, MO - October 2, 2007                 
       Board met at 1:45 P.M.                       
     Present: Directors Visintainer, Bess,          
 Bryson and President Melton.                       
      Absent: Directors Waelterman, Siedhoff        
 and Rice-Walker. (excused)                         
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of             
 September 25, 2007 were unanimously                
 approved.                                          
      The following documents were referred         
 by the Secretary:                                  
           September 26, 2007                       
       To the President and Directors of Public     
 Utilities and Streets: 113257, Better Living       
 Communities of St. Louis, dedicate land at         
 Mallinckrodt, 22nd, Palm and 25th in C.B.          
 1743 and 1742.                                     
      To the Directors of Public Utilities,      
Streets and Parks, Recreation and Forestry:      
113258, AT&T Missouri, place cable and           
innerduct at 5410 January, Hampton, near         
7442-7444 Gravois, 113259, Charter               
Communications, cut or bore for the purpose      
installing cables at Broadway and Lynch,         
113260, AT&T Missouri, place cable and           
plowduct at 331 DeBalivere, Pershing and 301     
DeBalivere, 113261, American Fiber Comm,         
extend underground duct system at No.            
Broadway and Cass to a beam between              
Broadway and I-70, 113262, AT&T Missouri,        
place fiber cable, plowduct, cable and conduit   
from 3850 Gravois and place pad, vrad cabinet    
and power meter at 3900 Gravois, 113263,         
AT&T Missouri, place fiber cable and             
plowduct at Arsenal and So. Grand, break into    
manhole at 3101 So. Grand to 3114 So. Grand,     
113264, American Fiber Comm, excavate and        
bore lateral underground duct system at No.      
Broadway and Locust, 6th and Locust, 7th         
and Locust to One Civic Center Building to       
Bank One Building, 113265, AT&T Missouri,        
place fiber cable and plowduct at Hickory and    
Tucker at 1200-1204 Hickory, break into          
manhole at Tucker and Park ending at right-of    
way at 1331 Park and, 113266, American           
Fiber Comm, excavate and bore a                  
telecommunications duct system lateal at Cole    
and No. Broadway to Lucas, west in Lucas         
to 6th.                                          
     To the Directors of Public Utilities and    
Public Safety: 113267, Grove Place II, LP, lot   
consolidation at 4243-49 Gibson in CB 5114A.     
    To the Director of Streets: 113268, Little   
School and Gym, encroach with handicap           
ramp at 2116 So. 13th .                          
         September 27, 2007                      
      To the President and Directors of Public   
Utilities: 113269, Nokia Siemens Networks,       
install 2 nodes at the Civil Courts Building on  
roof and cabled by fiber to WiFi equipment       
rack in equipment room in basement of            
building. Equipment will be cabled to the        
AT&T switch in a rack next to Nokia's            
equipment rack.                                  
     To the Directors of Public Utilities and    
Public Safety: 113270, Samuel Hutton,            
consolidation land at 4619-21 Virginia in C.B.   
2764, 113271, Pageant Building, LLC,             
consolidate land at 6100, 6114 and 6124          
Enright and 691 Rosedale in C.B. 5975 and,       
113272, New Life Evangelistic Center, hold       
event in Lucas Park from October 5-6, 2007.      
            October 2, 2007                      
      To the Directors of Public Utilities and   
Public Safety: 113286, Third Eye, resubdivide    
plat at 3937-39 Delmar in C.B. 3753, 113287,     
Chip Wood, subdivide land at Blow,               
Moellenhoff and January in C.B. 5337,            
 113288, Third Eye, resubdivide plat at 4338-    
 42 Delmar in C.B. 3758, 113289, Third Eye,      
 resubdivide plat at 4333 Delmar in C.B. 4572,   
 113290, Third Eye, resubdivide plat at 4357-    
 63-67 Delmar in C.B. 4572 and, 113291, Rock     
 Chapel AME Church, consolidate plat at          
 Caroline, Cardinal and Rutger in C.B. 1275.     
       To the Directors of Health and Hospitals  
 and Public Safety: 113292, St. Nicholas Pre-    
 School, conduct a day care center at 1805       
 Lucas, 113293, Luv-Kiz Day Care and             
 Preschool, conduct a day care center at 3510    
 So. Spring and, 113294, Dyverse Ink, operate    
 a tattoo parlor at 8112 No. Broadway.           
       Communications, reports, recommenda-      
 tions and documents were submitted by Board     
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:    
                 LETTINGS                        
      Eight sealed proposals for the public      
 work advertised under Letting No. 8343 - Dr.    
 Martin Luther King Drive Resurfacing            
 Kingshighway to Page, were received, publicly   
 opened, read and referred to the President.     
                PRESIDENT                        
      Detailed plans and specifications for the  
 following work approved and Board set date      
 of November 6, 2007 for opening bids for        
 work and Secretary instructed to insert the     
 proper advertisement therefore:                 
      Letting No. 8345 - Residential Sound       
 Insulation Program Part XLV at Lambert St.      
 Louis International Airport(R)                  
       Addendum No. 1 to the plans and           
 specifications for Letting No. 8345 -           
 Residential Sound Insulation Program Part       
 XLV at Lambert approved and made part of        
 the original plans.                             
      Proposed contract and bond ordered         
 approved as follows:                            
     Letting No. 8337 - Dr. Martin Luther        
 King Drive Reconstruction, City Limits to       
 Kingshighway, Federal Project No. STP-          
 5620(601), Gershenson Construction              
 Company Inc., #2 Truitt Drive, Eureka, MO       
 63026 Contract No. 19697                        
      Preliminary approval ordered given and     
 10 days granted in which to sign same:          
      Letting No. 8336 - Residential Sound       
 Insulation Program Part XLIII at Lambert St.    
 Louis International Airport (R) , Koch          
 Corporation, 1131 Logan Street, Louisville,     
 KY 40204, Amount: $623,269.00.                  
      Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to P.S.A.     
 No. 1034 with Crawford, Murphy & Tilly,         
 Inc. for Design of the Reconstruction of        
 Taxiway Delta from Taxiway N to Taxiway         
 M and From Taxiway L to Taxiway K Update        
 Pavement Management System at Lambert-         
 St. Louis International Airport approved and   
 President authorized to execute same.          
       Supplemental Agreement No. 7 to P.S.A.   
 No. 978 with Michael Roth & Associates Inc.    
 for Architectural Acoustical Engineering and   
 Program Management Services for the Noise      
 Mitigation Program, Lambert-St. Louis          
 International Airport(R) approved and President
 authorized to execute same.                    
       Fifth Amendment to Service Agreement     
 No. 31025 with O.R. Colan Associates of        
 Illinois LLC for Land Acquisition Services,    
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)     
 approved and President authorized to execute   
 same.                                          
 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                   
      The Board declared as emergency the       
 following: Remove asbestos from the air        
 handler duct work of Chain of Rocks Head       
 House Laboratory and, Remove lime softening    
 residuals and scale from Softening Basin #3 at 
 the Chain of Rocks Water Treatment Plant.      
 PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF                     
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                   
       5 Permits for Union Electric Company     
 d/b/a AmerenUE Missouri ordered approved,      
 subject to certain conditions as follows:      
 113251, set 3-45' poles along south side of    
 alley between Compton and Michigan at 3135     
 Michigan, 113250, replace poles and Maffitt    
 and set 2 poles on west side of alley between  
 Terry and Maffitt at 5017 Maffitt, 113253,     
 set 40' pole at Bremen east of Halls Street at 
 37 Bremen, 113252, replace and set poles on    
 south side of alley east of Grand between      
 Magnolia and Halliday at 2800 So. Grand and,   
 113254, bore, build and install conduit across 
 Winnebago, east of Arkansas at 3500-3516       
 Winnebao.                                      
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      Application No. 113255, Matthew           
 Ortballs, subdivide at 6838 Waldemar and       
 6845 Bruno in C.B. 4626-W, ordered             
 approved, subject to certain conditions.       
      4 lot consolidations ordered approved,    
 subject to certain conditions as follows:      
 113271, Pageant Building LLC, 6100, 6114,      
 and 6124 Enright and 691 Rosedale, 113220,     
 Holden Construction, Wise, West Park,          
 Macklind and Pierce in C.B. 4010 and 5504,     
 113270, Samuel Hutton, 4519-21 Virginia in     
 C.B. 2764, 113267, Grove Place II LP, 4243-    
 49 Gibson in C.B. 5114A.                       
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Draft of the following ordinances         
 transmitted with the recommendation that       
 they be approved, by this Board, and the       
Secretary instructed to forward same to the     
Board of Aldermen with the recommendation       
that they be passed:                            
     "An ordinance to conditionally vacate a    
15' wide airstrip above 18th Street, north of   
Gratiot Street, adjoining City Blocks 452 and   
456."                                           
      "An ordinance to conditionally vacate     
1) Papin from Gratiot south to Papin (vacated   
Ord. 46915) and Papin from Grand west to        
Papin (vacated Ord. 46915) 2) The 15' wide      
north/south alley and the remaining 165' of     
the 20'wide east/west alley in City Block 2184  
as bounded by Papin, Grand, Chouteau and        
Prospect (vacated Ord. 46915).                  
      "An ordinance to conditionally vacate     
the easternmost 206.30' of the 20' wide east/   
west alley in City Block 935 as bounded by      
Delmar, 22nd, Lucas and 23rd."                  
     "An ordinance to conditionally vacate      
the northern 150.17 feet of the 20 foot wide    
north/south alley in City Block 636 as bounded  
by Montgomery, Hadley, Warren and 13th."        
     "An ordinance to conditionally vacate      
the eastern 103.00 feet of the 15 feet wide     
east/west alley in City Block 509 as bounded    
by Olive, 18th, Pine and 17th."                 
    "An ordinance to conditionally vacate       
Josephine Baker Blvd. from Locust to            
Washington."                                    
    Affidavit of Bissinger's Inc., relating to  
compliance with Section 10 of Ordinance         
67653, Petition No. 6695 approved.              
     3 encroachments ordered approved,          
subject to certain conditions as follows:       
113248, Saint Louis Connect Care, banners       
on Delmar, Clara, Belt and Semple at 5535       
Delmar, 113249, Shaw Neighborhood               
Improvement Association, banners on             
Magnolia, Tower Grove, Shaw, DeTonty and        
Grand and, 113227, Contemporary Foods,          
LLC, sidewalk cafe at 1130 Washington.          
    DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                         
  RECREATION AND FORESTRY                       
      Application No. 113272, New Life          
Evangelistic Center, hold event October 5-6,    
2007 in Lucas Park ordered approved, subject    
to certain conditions.                          
 DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                        
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
     3 Hospitals ordered approved as            
follows: 104779, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, 216    
So. Kingshighway, 111585, Forest Park           
Hospital, 6150 Oakland and, 112735, Cardinal    
Glennon Children's Hospital, 1465 So. Grand.    
    Application No. 113140, Senior Life,        
conduct an adult day care facility at 2301      
 Hampton ordered approved.                          
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                        
     Addendum No. 1 to Agenda Items for             
 October 2, 2007, ordered approved.                 
      Agenda items for October 2, 2007,             
 ordered approved.                                  
      Adjourn to meet Tuesday, October 9,           
 2007.                                              
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.          
                  President                         
 ATTEST:                                            
                  Cherise D. Thomas                 
                  Secretary                         
             Office of the                          
        Board of Public Service                     
           City of St. Louis                        
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
 St. Louis, Missouri time on October 16, 2007       
 at which time they will be publicly opened         
 and read, viz:                                     
 JOB TITLE: DELMAR MEDIAN AND                       
 STREETSCAPE FEDERAL PROJECT                        
 NO STP-5500(662)                                   
 LETTING NUMBER: 8344                               
 DEPOSIT: $24,400.00                                
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
 President of the Board of Public Service,          
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be         
 viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-             
 bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).      
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 SEVENTY FIVE dollars ($75.00) for each             
 set.                                               
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
 be made.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications,      
 and plans.                                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as    
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall     
 prevail.                                         
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or   
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,       
 for the amount of Deposit required, as           
 heretofore stated.                               
       All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the   
 work completed, less a retained amount of        
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including      
 all retained percentages, will be made within    
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and   
 final acceptance by the City.                    
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively   
 insure that in any contract entered into         
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority         
 business enterprises will be afforded full       
 opportunity to submit bids in response to        
 this invitation and will not be discriminated    
 against on the grounds of race, color or national
 origin in consideration for an award. The        
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.       
       The Contract shall provide that not less   
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the  
 City of St. Louis as determined by the           
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
 of workmen needed in the actual construction     
 work on the site of the construction job herein  
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
 be paid to all workmen.                          
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
      By Order of the Board of Public Service,    
 September 18, 2007.                              
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Cherise D. Thomas               
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
             City of St. Louis                     
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
for the Public Work Hereinafter mentioned at       
the Office of the Board of Public Service,         
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.               
November 6, 2007. St. Louis, Missouri time,        
at which time they will be publicly opened         
and read, viz:                                     
JOB TITLE: Residential Sound Insulation            
Program, Part XLV at LAMBERT - ST.                 
LOUIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                     
LETTING NUMBER:. 8345                              
DEPOSIT: $ 12,200.00                               
      Plans, specifications and general            
information may be obtained in the Planning        
and Development Office, 11425 Old                  
Natural Bridge Blvd., 4th Floor, Bridgeton,        
Missouri 63044, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM,           
Monday through Friday and upon payment             
of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each package.        
Purchased sets become the property of the          
prospective bidder and no refunds will be          
made. Information concerning this project          
may be obtained by telephoning (314) 551-          
5025.                                              
      Proposals must be made on blank forms        
to be furnished by the President of the Board      
of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
Room 208, City Hall.                               
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
in figures, without interlineations, alterations   
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
show the products of the respective unit prices    
and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
Sum for which he will perform all of the           
estimated work, as requested by the general        
requirements and covenants, specifications         
and plans.                                         
     In case of a discrepancy between the          
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
applied to be basic items, the latter shall        
prevail.                                           
     Each bid must be accompanied by a             
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,        
for the amount of Deposit required, as             
heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid   
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
ten percent (10%). The City will make final        
payment, including all retained percentages,       
within ten (10) days after completion of all       
 work and final acceptance.                          
       "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies        
 all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that  
 in any contract entered into pursuant to this       
 advertisement, minority business enterprises        
 will be afforded full opportunity to submit         
 bids in response to this invitation and will not    
 be discriminated against on the grounds of race,    
 color or national origin in consideration for an    
 award."                                             
       The contract shall provide that not less      
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the     
 City of St. Louis as determined by the              
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations        
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type     
 of workmen needed in the actual construction        
 work on the site of the construction job herein     
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing       
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall      
 be paid to all workmen.                             
       All labor to be performed under this          
 contract shall be subje ct to the provisions of     
 Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the       
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.                 
       The right of the Board of Public Service      
 to reject any or all bids are expressly reserved.   
     By order of the Board of Public Service,        
 October 2, 2007.                                    
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.           
                  President                          
 ATTEST:                                             
                  Cherise D. Thomas                  
                  Secretary                          
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                      
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                             
    BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                          
       REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                    
 for DESIGN OF WARD STREET AND                       
 ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS IN CITY OF                       
 ST. LOUIS, MO. Statement of Qualifications          
 due by 5:00 PM CT, Thursday, October 11,            
 2007 at Board of Public Service, 1200 Market,       
 Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103.            
 RFQ may be obtained from website                    
 www.stlbps.org, under Contracts & Bids,             
 Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at       
 314-589-6214. 25% MBE and 5% WBE                    
 participation goals.                                
  PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                        
      A public hearing will be held by the           
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on                 
 Wednesday, October 10, 2007, in Room 208            
 City Hall to consider the following:                
      APPEAL #8900 - Appeal filed by Keith      
 Murray, from the determination of the Building 
 Commissioner in the denial of a building       
 permit authorizing the Appellant to construct  
 a garage per plans at 3520-22 Pestalozzi.      
 WARD 8 #AB399802-07 ZONE: "B" - Two            
 Family Dwelling District                       
       APPEAL #8902 - Appeal filed by Aaron     
 Taylor, from the determination of the Building 
 Commissioner in the denial of a building       
 permit authorizing the Appellant to complete   
 interior and exterior alterations per plans    
 (zoning only) at 3674-86 Forest Park. WARD     
 17 #AB407516-07 ZONE: "K" -                    
 Unrestricted District                          
       APPEAL #8914 - Appeal filed by           
 Randall's Wine & Spirits, from the             
 determination of the Building Commissioner     
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing 
 the Appellant to erect two (2) illuminated wall
 signs per plans at 1910 S Jefferson. WARD 7    
 #AB410647-07 ZONE: "J" - Industrial            
 District #AB410648-07                          
       APPEAL #8915 - Appeal filed by Dana      
 Stewart, from the determination of the Building
 Commissioner in the denial of a building       
 permit authorizing the Appellant to construct  
 a five car garageport as per plans at 2756-58  
 Accomac. WARD 7 #AB410074-07 ZONE:             
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District         
      APPEAL #8916 - Appeal filed by John       
 Duckworth, from the determination of the       
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a       
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to   
 construct a detached garage per plans at 3119  
 Shenandoah. WARD 7 #AB410223-07                
 ZONE: "B" - Two Family Dwelling                
 District                                       
      APPEAL #8917 - Appeal filed by Piros      
 Signs, from the determination of the Building  
 Commissioner in the denial of a building       
 permit authorizing the Appellant to install one
 (1) non-illuminated projecting sign at 1900    
 Locust. WARD 6 #AB411445-07 ZONE:              
 "I" - Central Business District                
      In accordance with the provisions of      
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
     By authority of the Board of               
 Adjustment.                                    
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                   
      A public hearing will be held by the      
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on            
 Wednesday, October 17, 2007, in Room 208       
 City Hall to consider the following:           
      APPEAL #8918 - Appeal filed by            
Grimes Consulting, from the determination        
of the Board of Public Service in the denial of  
a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
to resubdivide in C.B. 3919E at 3723 Forest      
Park. WARD 17 #BPS112928 ZONE:                   
"G" - Local Commercial & Office District         
     APPEAL #8919 - Appeal filed by Dr.          
Linda Pecaut, from the determination of the      
Building Commissioner in the denial of an        
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a chiropractic office at 5401         
Winona. WARD 16 #AO411220-07 ZONE:               
"A" - Single Family Dwelling District            
       APPEAL #8920 - Appeal filed by            
Michael Corn, from the determination of the      
Building Commissioner in the denial of an        
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a coffee shop/museum/                 
manufacturing of coffee beans business on the    
1 st floor at 4515-19 Olive. WARD 18             
#AO410405-07           ZONE: "F" -               
Neighborhood Commercial District                 
      APPEAL #8921 - Appeal filed by             
Warren Sign Company, from the determination      
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
to install two (2) wall signs illuminated per    
plans at 1000 Clark. WARD 7 #AB374277-           
07 ZONE: "I" - Central Business District         
     APPEAL #8922 - Appeal filed by              
Dennis Blackmon, from the determination of       
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an    
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a retail sales business (clothing &   
accessories) at 2824 N Vandeventer. WARD         
3 #AO412168-07 ZONE: "C" - Multiple              
Family Dwelling District "G" - Local             
Commercial & Office District                     
     In accordance with the provisions of        
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
    By authority of the Board of                 
Adjustment.                                      
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                     
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
     A Conditional Use Hearing will be held      
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on            
Thursday, October 18, 2007, on the               
following conditional uses:                      
    3708 Keokuk Street - Home                    
Occupancy Waiver-Car Wash (Office Use            
Only) "B"-Two-Family Dwelling District. Te       
Ward 25                                          
    4223 Blair - Home Occupancy Waiver-          
Landscaping (Office Use Only) - "B" - Two-       
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 3              
     2916 Hereford - Home Occupancy              
 Waiver - Contracting (Office Use Only) - "B"     
 Two-Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 8          
      5410 Murdoch - Home Occupancy               
 Waiver - Cleaning Service/Resid & Comm.          
 (Office Use Only) - "A" Single-Family            
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 16                    
      3833 Greer - Home Occupancy Waiver          
 - General Contractor (Office Use Only) - "B"     
 Two-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 3          
      2100 S. 9th St. - #AO-410221-07 - Hair      
 Salon/Retail Sales of Products "D" Multiple-     
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 7              
      4728 Tennessee - #AO-410027-07 -            
 Alternative Energy Center/Teaching Facility      
 "B" Single-Family Dwelling District. Mv          
 Ward 25                                          
       3000 S. Jefferson - #AO-403089-07 -        
 Interior & Exterior Alterations as Per Plans     
 (Total Rehab) "F" - Neighborhood                 
 Commercial District. Mv Ward 9                   
      1172-78 N. Kingshighway - #AB-              
 412240-07 - Expand Daycare to Basement           
 Per Plans "F" Neighborhood Commercial            
 District. Pmg Ward 18                            
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
        BOARD OF ALDERMEN                         
     The Housing, Urban Development and           
 Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of       
 Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on           
 October 24, 2007 at 10:00 A.M. in the            
 Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:                 
         BOARD BILL NO. 236                       
            Introduced By                         
       Alderman Terry Kennedy                     
      An ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on July 2, 2007, to          
 change the zoning of property as indicated on    
 the District Map, from C Multiple-Family         
 Dwelling District to the G Local Commercial      
 and Office District in City Block 3725 (4427,    
 4429, 4431, 4435, 4439 and 4441 Page             
 Boulevard), so as to include the described       
 parcels of land in City Block 3725; and          
 containing an emergency clause.                  
        BOARD BILL NO. 249                        
           Introduced By                          
     Alderwoman Phyllis Young,                    
       An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission on August 1, 2007, to        
 change the zoning of property as indicated on    
 the District Map, from "C" Multiple-Family       
 Dwelling District to the "G" Local               
 Commercial and Office District in City Block     
 1397 (2122, 2124-26, 2128 and 2130 Cushing       
 Street), so as to include the described parcels  
 of land in City Block 1397; and containing an    
 emergency clause.                               
       BOARD BILL NO. 263                        
          Introduced By                          
    Aldermen Kenneth Ortmann                     
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on September 5, 2007,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map from the "K" Unrestricted   
 District to the "D" Multiple-Family Dwelling    
 District and the "F" Neighborhood               
 Commercial District, so as to include the       
 described parcels of land in City Blocks 792,   
 793 and 848, and containing an emergency        
 clause.                                         
        BOARD BILL NO. 269                       
           Introduced By                         
    Alderwoman Jennifer Florida                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on September 5, 2007,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map, from "A" Single-Family     
 Dwelling District to the "F" Neighborhood       
 Commercial District in City Block 4163 (4168    
 Juniata), so as to include the described parcel 
 of land in City Block 4163; and containing an   
 emergency clause.                               
        BOARD BILL NO. 277                       
           Introduced By                         
     Alderwoman Phyllis Young                    
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on September 5, 2007,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map, from "A" Single-Family     
 Dwelling District to the "F" Neighborhood       
 Commercial District in City Block 1254 (1410    
 Dolman), so as to include the described parcels 
 of land in City Block 1254; and containing an   
 emergency clause.                               
        BOARD BILL NO. 278                       
           Introduced By                         
     Alderman Joseph D. Roddy                    
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on September 5, 2007,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map, from "J" Industrial        
 District to the "F" Neighborhood Commercial     
 District in City Block 4807 (4401 Chouteau),    
 so as to include the described parcel of land in
 City Block 4807; and containing an emergency    
 clause.                                         
        BOARD BILL NO. 279                       
          Introduced By                          
    Alderwoman Dionne Flowers                    
      An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission on September 5, 2007,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map, from "A" Single-Family     
 Dwelling District and "F" Neighborhood          
Commercial District to the "F" Neighborhood    
Commercial District only, in City Block 9115   
(8907-51 Riverview), so as to include the      
described tract of land in City Block 9115;    
and containing an emergency clause.            
        BOARD BILL NO. 189                     
           Introduced By                       
     Alderwoman Phyllis Young                  
     An Ordinance recommended by the           
Planning Commission on June 6, 2007, to        
change the zoning of property as indicated on  
the District Map, to the A Single-Family       
Dwelling District, so as to include the        
described parcels of land in City Block 475;   
and containing an emergency clause.            
     Any person wishing to speak for or        
against the above cited board bill should be   
present.                                       
     Sincerely,                                
     Donna A. Booker                           
     Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen        
         NOTICE OF                             
 OPEN MEETING                                  
September 28, 2007                             
12:00 pm                                       
Notice is hereby given that the Human          
Development Corporation of Metropolitan        
St. Louis will conduct a meeting at 12:00      
noon, on Friday, October 12, 2007, at 935      
N. Vandeventer, St. Louis, MO.                 
A tentative agenda of the meeting includes:    
I.   Roll Call of Members Present              
II. Review of Minutes:                         
       * August 24, 2007                       
III. Correspondence                            
IV. Reports                                    
     1) Nominating Committee Report            
     2) Chairman's Report                      
     3) Safety Committee Report                
     4) Budget and Audit Committee Report      
     5) President/CEO's Report                 
V.   Old Business                              
VI. New Business                               
     Representatives of the news media may     
obtain copies of this notice by contacting:    
     Mrs. Ruth A. Smith                        
     929 North Spring Avenue                   
     St. Louis, MO 63108                       
     (314) 613-2200                            
 INVITATION TO BID                                  
  Board of Police Commissioners                     
  Metropolitan Police Department                    
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                    
            BID #640-000906                         
     2008 Chevy Tahoe PPV (16 to 18)                
       Sealed bids of the above will be received    
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
 Department, Office of the Director of              
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
 local time, Friday, October 19, 2007, when         
 they will be opened publicly and announced.        
 Official bid forms on which bids must be           
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of       
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective          
 bidders upon request in person or by               
 telephone during regular business hours.           
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.            
       The Board of Police Commissioners            
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
 reserves the right to consider criteria other      
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
 Among other factors, the Board will consider       
 the location of the business, minority interest    
 in the business, prior performance and the bid     
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
 associated Regulations could apply to the          
 service for which bids are being sought herein.    
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                            
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations           
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,          
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at                   
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.                  
       CAROL SHEPARD                                     
       DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                            
       PHONE# 314-444-5608                               
 DEPARTMENT OF                                           
  PERSONNEL                                              
      NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                             
      The City of St. Louis, Department of               
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,                
 announces competitive Civil Service                     
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal         
 Service.                                                
       The last date for filing an application for       
 the following examination is OCTOBER 16,                
 2007.                                                   
                   FIRE CHIEF                            
                Prom. 1395                               
     (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                             
           EMPLOYEES ONLY)                               
 $82,826 to $104,103 (Annual Salary Range)               
       Application period for the following              
 examinations will close when enough applica-            
 tions are received to fill the anticipated vacan-       
 cies. Please submit application as soon as              
 possible.                                               
       PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE II                            
                 Prom./O.C.C. 1394                       
  $45,188 to $67,834 (Annual Salary Range)               
 ________________________________________________________
       Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social           
 Security, and Employee Retirement System                
 Benefits privileges are provided in addition to         
 salary.                                                 
       Application forms and further                     
 information concerning duties of positions,             
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative        
 weights of examination components, and                  
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the        
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114             
 Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO                   
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the             
 Internet. Visit the city web site at                    
 www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with               
 the City.                                               
                  Richard R. Frank                       
                  Director                               
 October 3, 2007                                         
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                           
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any           
individual or company who performs work         
within the City limits must obtain a Business   
License. This would also apply to businesses    
who employ sales or delivery personnel to       
come into the City. Contracts requiring work    
to be performed in the City will NOT be         
awarded to unlicensed businesses.               
Please contact the License Collector,           
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,        
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may          
also refer to our on-line site at               
www.stlouiscity.com.                            
ST. LOUIS LIVING                                
WAGE ORDINANCE                                  
  LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                      
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that    
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597      
and associated Regulations apply to the         
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial    
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are    
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires    
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all     
individuals who perform work pursuant to a      
contract executed between the successful        
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]      
must be paid a minimum of the applicable        
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached     
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are     
adjusted during the term of the contract        
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates     
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder      
[proponent] must submit the attached "Living    
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance              
Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure   
to submit this Declaration with the bid         
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid  
[proposal]. A successful bidder 's              
[proponent's] failure to comply with contract   
provisions related to the Living Wage           
Ordinance may result in termination of the      
contract and the imposition of additional       
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and     
Regulations.                                    
     Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
are available upon request from La Queta        
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be    
accessed at http://www.stlouiscity. com/living  
wage.                                           
   SUPPLY                                       
COMMISSIONER                                    
Office of the Supply Commissioner,              
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,        
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,             
October 9, 2007 - ADVERTISED BIDS will          
 be received by the undersigned to be opened       
 at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the      
 items listed below on the dates specified.        
         Notice to All Suppliers                   
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
 employment practices that are in accordance       
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis      
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated       
 there-under to the end that all Contractors       
 and suppliers of materials and services will      
 offer equal opportunity for employment and        
 job advancement to blacks and other minority      
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.        
             Requesting a Bid                      
 To have a bid mailed or faxed to you, please      
 contact the Supply Commissioner's office at       
 (314) 622-4580.                                   
    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2007                      
    SURPLUS MISCELLANEOUS                          
   OFFICE FURNITURE FOR SALE                       
 per condemnation #S08-09.                         
    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2007                      
 2008 CHEVROLET TRAILBLAZERS                       
 for furnishing the Airport Authority per Req.     
 164.                                              
            BELL REDUCERS                          
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1127.                                            
      POLYVINYL CHORIDE PIPE                       
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1128.                                            
                     PIPE                          
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1138.                                            
               FILTER SAND                         
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1149.                                            
             FILTER GRAVEL                         
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1150.                                            
         SPREADING CHISELS                         
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1189.                                            
         14" DIAMOND TIPPED                        
             SAW BLADES                            
 for furnishing the Water Division per Req.        
 #1191.                                            
     CONTRACT FOR SHEETING                         
      MATERIAL - REFLECTIVE                        
 for a period of 3 years from February 5, 2008     
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
