       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2008-2009                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
   Friday, November 21, 2008.     
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers November 21, 2008.                 
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,   
 Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin,       
 Triplett, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,  
 Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Roddy,    
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,   
 Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,   
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 27      
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
          HONORED GUESTS                     
      None.                                  
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                   
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for November 7, 2008.               
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      To the President of the Board of       
 Aldermen:                                   
     I wish to report that on the 21st day of
 November, 2008, I delivered to the Office of
the Mayor of the City of St. Louis the            
following board bills that were truly agreed to   
and finally adopted.                              
           Board Bill No. 258                     
      An Ordinance designating a portion of       
the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a              
Redevelopment Area known as the Chemical          
Building Redevelopment Area pursuant to the       
Real Property Tax Increment Allocation            
Redevelopment Act; approving a                    
redevelopment plan and a redevelopment            
project with respect thereto; adopting tax        
increment financing within the redevelopment      
area; making findings with respect thereto;       
establishing the Chemical Building Special        
Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions      
by city officials; and containing a severability  
clause.                                           
           Board Bill No. 259                     
      An Ordinance affirming adoption of a        
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,           
and Redevelopment project; authorizing the        
execution of a redevelopment agreement            
between the City of St. Louis and Crossland       
Capital Partners, Inc.; prescribing the form      
and details of said agreement; designating        
Crossland Capital Partners, Inc. As developer     
of the Redevelopment Area; making certain         
findings with respect thereto; authorizing other  
related actions in connection with the            
redevelopment of certain property within the      
Redevelopment Area; and containing a              
severability clause.                              
         Board Bill No. 139                       
       (Committee Substitute)                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to enter into a Lease Agreement with        
JM Management, LLC, to lease property             
located in City Block 516 of the City of St.      
Louis, for a period of Ten (10) years, and for    
the purposes of conducting operations of the      
City of Saint Louis Board of Election             
Commissioners, and containing an emergency        
clause.                                           
           Board Bill No. 249                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
consideration of the sum of Seven Hundred         
Forty-Two Dollars ($742.00) and other good        
and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed     
to remise, release and forever quit-claim unto    
Roy A Becker and Kevin T. King, certain City-     
owned property located in City Block 1254,        
which property is a side lot fronting 9 feet 6    
inches on Carroll Street, and containing an       
emergency clause.                                 
           Board Bill No. 215                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
 Louis to execute a lease of City-owned            
 property located in City Block 3178 to Speed      
 Through Power LLC, for a period of Twenty         
 (20) years, with Two (2) additional Five (5)      
 year options for renewal at lessee's request;     
 and containing an emergency clause.               
            Board Bill No. 173                     
       An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
 all northbound traffic traveling on Cora Avenue   
 at Cote Brillante Avenue and containing an        
 emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 210                     
       An ordinance establishing stop site for     
 all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling     
 on Pestalozzi Street at Michigan Avenue and       
 containing an emergency clause.                   
            Board Bill No. 251                     
      An ordinance repealing Ordinance No.         
 65110, which provided for the vacation of         
 3rd Street between Miller Street and Rutger       
 Street adjoining City Blocks 202 and 692 of       
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri.                  
            Board Bill No. 262                     
      An Ordinance designating a portion of        
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a              
 Redevelopment Area known as the 4900              
 Manchester Redevelopment Area pursuant to         
 the Real Property Tax Increment Allocation        
 Redevelopment Act; approving a                    
 Redevelopment Plan and a Redevelopment            
 Project with respect thereto; adopting tax        
 increment financing within the Redevelopment      
 Area; making findings with respect thereto;       
 establishing the 4900 Manchester Special          
 Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions      
 by City officials; and containing a severability  
 clause.                                           
            Board Bill No. 218                     
       An ordinance, recommended by the            
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,              
 making a supplemental appropriation to the        
 Annual Budget Ordinance No. 67972,                
 approved by the Mayor on June 30, 2008,           
 for the Department of Parks, Recreation and       
 Forestry for the fiscal year which began July     
 1, 2008 and ends June 30, 2009, amounting to      
 the sum of One Million Two Hundred                
 Thousand Dollars ($1,200,000.00); and             
 containing an emergency clause.                   
            Board Bill No. 263                     
       An Ordinance affirming adoption of a        
 Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,           
 and Redevelopment Project; authorizing the        
 execution of a redevelopment agreement            
 between the City of St. Louis and 4900            
 Manchester Tif, Inc.; prescribing the form and    
 details of said agreement; designating 4900       
 Manchester Tif, Inc., as developer of the         
 Redevelopment Area; making certain findings       
 with respect thereto; authorizing other related
 actions in connection with the redevelopment   
 of certain property within the Redevelopment   
 Area; and containing a severability clause.    
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                   
      Board of Aldermen                         
           Office of the Mayor                  
 City of St. Louis                              
 Room 200 City Hall                             
 1200 Market Street                             
 St. Louis, MO 63103                            
 (314) 622-3201                                 
 November 17, 2008                              
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
 Room 230 City Hall                             
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                      
 Dear Board Members:                            
      I have the honor to return to you         
 herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,   
 Board Bills No. 181, 208, 222 (Committee       
 Substitute) and 235.                           
      Sincerely                                 
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                           
      Mayor                                     
 City of St. Louis                              
 Room 200 City Hall                             
 1200 Market Street                             
 St. Louis, MO 63103                            
 (314) 622-3201                                 
 November 17, 2008                              
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
 Room 230 City Hall                             
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                      
 Dear Board Members:                            
      I have the honor to return to you         
 herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,   
 Board Bills No. 139 (Committee Substitute),    
 173, 210, 215, 218, 249 and 251.               
      Sincerely                                 
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                           
      Mayor                                     
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                     
      None.                                     
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                     
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
        Mr. Roddy moved that Board Bill No.     
 265 before the Board for perfection, be        
 perfected as reported out of Committee with    
 its recommendation "Do Pass".                  
      Seconded by Mr. Williamson.               
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
          BOARD BILLS FOR                       
           THIRD READING                        
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                      
      Mr. Vollmer moved for third reading and   
final passage of Board Bill No. 264.             
     Seconded by Ms. Florida.                    
     Carried by the following vote:              
     Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Ford-        
Griffin, Triplett, Young, Ortmann, Vollmer,      
Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Roddy,         
Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,        
Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,        
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 25           
     Noes: 0                                     
     Present: 0                                  
           Board Bill No. 264                    
      An Ordinance recommended by the            
Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
authorizing and directing the issuance and       
delivery of not to exceed $1,320,000 plus        
issuance costs principal amount of Tax           
Increment Revenue Notes (4900 Manchester         
Redevelopment Project) Series 200_-A/B, of       
the City of St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing     
the form and details of such notes and the       
covenants and agreements made by the City        
to facilitate and protect the payment thereof;   
prescribing other matters relating thereto, and  
containing a severability clause.                
           RESOLUTIONS                           
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
     None.                                       
           FIRST READING                         
           OF BOARD BILLS                        
Board Member Triplett introduced by              
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 304                    
      An ordinance authorizing and directing     
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary    
actions to honorarily designate the 2600 block   
of Pennsylvania Avenue as "Beverly "Bev"         
Buchheit Street."                                
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by          
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 305                    
      An ordinance authorizing and directing     
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary    
actions to honorarily designate Elliott Avenue   
as "Rev. Joe L. Bryant Avenue."                  
Board Member Young introduced by                 
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 306                    
     An ordinance recommended by the Board       
of Public Service to vacate above surface,       
surface and sub-surface rights for vehicle,      
equestrian and pedestrian travel in an excess    
portion of Biddle between First and Lewis        
adjacent to City Block 20 in the City of St.     
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in    
accordance with Charter authority, and in        
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of     
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions      
 on such vacation.                                
 Board Member Young introduced by                 
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 307                    
       An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to vacate above surface,       
 surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,      
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1) Picker    
 Street from 14th westwardly to I-44 ROW,         
 2) Hoehn Street from Picker Street               
 southwardly approximately 165 feet to            
 previously vacated Hoehn, Ordinance #56710,      
 3) the westernmost 10' wide north-south alley    
 in CB 820-N, Lots 6 & 7 from Lafayette to        
 the east-west alley in CB 820-N as bounded       
 by Lafayette, 14th, Picker and I-44 ROW, 4)      
 the easternmost 10' wide north-south alley in    
 CB 820-N, Trium's Addition, from Lafayette       
 to the east-west alley in CB 820-N as bounded    
 by Lafayette, 14th, Picker and I-44 ROW, 5)      
 the 10' wide east-west alley in CB 820-N as      
 bounded by Lafayette, 14th, Picker and I-44      
 ROW, 6) the southern most10' wide north-         
 south alley in CB 820-N from Picker to the       
 east-west alley in CB 820-N as bounded by        
 Lafayette, 14th, Picker and I-44 ROW, 7) the     
 10' wide north-south alley in CB 820 as          
 bounded by Picker, 14th, I-44 and Hoehn in       
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter  
 described, in accordance with Charter            
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4     
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
 certain conditions on such vacation.             
 Board Member Gregali introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 308                    
      An ordinance establishing a City Health     
 Insurance Committee to recommend programs        
 concerning health/medical insurance coverage     
 offered by the City of St. Louis to its          
 employees in the classified service and others;  
 repealing Ordinance 67665; and authorizing       
 the Director of Personnel to engage the          
 services of a contractual health insurance       
 consultant recommended by the City Health        
 Insurance Committee.                             
 Board Member Triplett introduced by              
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 309                    
    An ordinance establishing a four way stop     
 site at the intersection of Magnolia Avenue      
 and Michigan Avenue by regulating all east-      
 west traffic traveling on Magnolia Avenue        
 approaching such intersection and containing     
 an emergency clause.                             
 Board Member Roddy introduced by request:        
            Board Bill No. 310                    
       An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Board of Public Service ratifying the execution  
 of Purchase and Sale Agreement of real           
 property as set forth herein for additional park 
 land located in City Block 4878 between the      
 City of St. Louis and Forest West Properties,    
 Inc.; making certain findings and                
 representations and warranties with conditions   
 and covenants therein with a deed restriction    
 for a public park including the payment of       
 ___________________________________              
 DOLLARS AND ___/100 ($__________), as            
 adjusted for Holding Costs, as set forth in      
 Exhibit B to said Agreement; authorizing other   
 related actions in connection thereto; and       
 containing an emergency clause.                  
 Board Member Hanrahan introduced by              
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 311                    
       An ordinance pertaining to bathhouses,     
 amending Ordinance 56859, approved               
 November 26, 1974, codified as Chapter 8.24      
 of the Revised Code, by repealing Section        
 8.24.010 pertaining to the definitions and       
 enacting in lieu thereof a new section pertaining
 to the same subject matter; also repealing       
 Section 8.24.020 pertaining to the required      
 establishment license of this provision and      
 enacting in lieu thereof a new section on the    
 same subject matter; ; also repealing Section    
 8.24.030 pertaining to the required              
 establishment license application filing fee of  
 this provision and enacting in lieu thereof a    
 new section on the same subject matter; also     
 repealing Section 8.24.040 pertaining to the     
 neighborhood consent petition of the             
 establishment license of this provision and      
 enacting in lieu thereof a new section on the    
 same subject matter; also repealing Section      
 8.24.050 pertaining to the filing fee of this    
 provision; also repealing Section 8.24.060       
 pertaining to the application for license of this
 provision; also repealing Section 8.24.070       
 pertaining to the notice of hearing of this      
 provision and enacting in lieu thereof a new     
 section on the same subject matter; also         
 repealing Section 8.24.080 pertaining to the     
 conditions for issuance of establishment         
 license of this provision and enacting in lieu   
 thereof a new section on the same subject        
 matter; also repealing Section 8.24.090          
 pertaining to conditions for issuance of massage 
 therapist license requirements of this           
 provision; also repealing Section 8.24.110       
 pertaining to requirements of the license        
 revocation of this provision and enacting in     
 lieu thereof a new section on the same subject   
 matter; also repealing Section 8.24.120          
 pertaining to facilities of this provision and   
 enacting in lieu thereof a new section on the    
 same subject matter; also repealing Section      
8.24.130 pertaining to operating regulations      
of this provision and enacting in lieu thereof a  
new section on the same subject matter; also      
repealing Section 8.24.140 pertaining to          
inspection of this provision and enacting in      
lieu thereof a new section on the same subject    
matter; also repealing Section 8.24.150           
pertaining to transfer of licenses of this        
provision and enacting in lieu thereof a new      
section on the same subject matter; also          
repealing Section 8.24.160 pertaining             
substitution for schooling of this provision;     
also repealing Section 8.24.170 pertaining to     
time limit for existing businesses of this        
provision and enacting in lieu thereof a new      
section on the same subject matter; also          
repealing Section 8.24.190 pertaining to          
penalty for violation of this provision and       
enacting in lieu thereof a new section on the     
same subject matter; and containing a             
severability clause and emergency clause.         
Board Member Bosley introduced by                 
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 312                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated September 23,        
2008 for the 4518 Blair Ave. Redevelopment        
Area ("Plan") after finding that said             
Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended (the       
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
inclusive, as amended); containing a              
description of the boundaries of the Area in      
the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
of the Area is in the interest of the public      
health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
the people of the City; approving the Plan        
attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;       
finding that there is a feasible financial plan   
for the development of the Area which affords     
maximum opportunity for development of the        
Area by private enterprise; finding that no       
property in the Area may be acquired by the       
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority        
("LCRA") of the City of St. Louis, a public       
body corporate and politic created under          
Missouri law, through the exercise of eminent     
domain; finding that none of the property         
within the Area is occupied, but if should        
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be          
responsible for relocating any eligible           
occupants displaced as a result of                
implementation of the Plan; finding that          
financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
up to ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;    
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting       
 various officials, departments, boards and       
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to         
 exercise their respective powers in a manner     
 consistent with the Plan.                        
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                       
        BOARD BILLS                               
          Convention and Tourism                  
                   None.                          
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions             
                 None.                            
        Health and Human Services                 
             Board Bill No. 311.                  
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning              
                None.                             
         Intergovernmental Affairs                
                   None.                          
                  Legislation                     
                    None.                         
        Neighborhood Development                  
            Board Bill No. 312.                   
    Parks and Environmental Matters               
                 None.                            
       Personnel and Administration               
                  None.                           
              Public Employees                    
              Board Bill No. 308.                 
                Public Safety                     
                   None.                          
               Public Utilities                   
                   None.                          
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse               
 Board Bills No. 304, 305, 306, 307 and 309.      
      Transportation and Commerce                 
                  None.                           
              Ways and Means                      
              Board Bill No. 310.                 
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                       
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                        
      Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways         
 and Means submitted the following report         
 which was read.                                  
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,          
 November 21, 2008.                               
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
      The Committee on Ways and Means to          
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,     
 report that they have considered the same and    
 recommend adoption.                              
            Board Bill No. 232                    
       An ordinance establishing the Shaw         
 Special Business District pursuant to Sections   
 71.790 through 71.808 of the Revised Statutes    
 of Missouri, setting its boundaries, tax rate,   
 initial rate of levy subject to the approval of  
 the qualified voters, bonding authority, and   
 uses to which tax revenue may be put; creating 
 a board of commissioners; and containing       
 severability, effectiveness, and emergency     
 clauses.                                       
            Board Bill No. 233                  
      An ordinance submitting to the qualified  
 voters residing in the Shaw Special Business   
 District Special Business District as          
 designated in Ordinance No.____________,       
 approved DATE (Board Bill No. ___) a           
 proposal to levy a tax on the real property    
 located in said district; submitting said      
 proposal to the voters of said district at an  
 Election on March 3, 2009; and containing an   
 emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 245                  
       An ordinance repealing paragraph (c) of  
 Section Two of Ordinance No. 63777,            
 approved on June 4, 1996, as amended by        
 Ordinance No. 64546, approved on December      
 18, 1998, and in lieu thereof a new paragraph  
 is enacted extending the period of time during 
 which the Cathedral Square Special Business    
 District shall be permitted to collect the tax 
 within the boundaries of the district therein  
 established; and containing effectiveness and  
 emergency clauses.                             
            Board Bill No. 246                  
       An ordinance submitting to the qualified 
 voters residing in the Cathedral Square Special
 Business District as designated in Ordinance   
 No. 63777, approved on June 4, 1996, a         
 proposal to continue the levy of a tax on the  
 real property located in said district for ten 
 years; submitting said proposal to the voters  
 of said district at the General Election on    
 March 3, 2009; and containing an emergency     
 clause.                                        
          Board Bill No. 247                    
        (Committee Substitute)                  
       An ordinance pertaining to the Central   
 West End North Special Business District,      
 repealing Ordinance 64935, approved on May     
 17, 2000, and in lieu thereof enacting two new 
 sections, extending the period of time during  
 which the Central West End North Special       
 Business District shall be permitted to collect
 the tax within the boundaries of the district  
 therein established and further expanding the  
 activities and improvements for which tax      
 funds may be used; containing an effectiveness 
 and emergency clauses.                         
            Board Bill No. 248                  
      An ordinance submitting to the qualified  
 voters residing in the Central West End North  
 Special Business District as designated in     
 Ordinance No. 62622, approved on May 29,       
 1992, a proposal to continue the levy of a tax 
 on the real property located in said district  
for ten years; submitting said proposal to the    
voters of said district at the General Election   
on March 3, 2009; and containing an               
emergency clause.                                 
     Alderman Wessels                             
     Chairman of the Committee                    
     Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,      
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following        
report which was read.                            
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
November 21, 2008.                                
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Streets, Traffic and       
Refuse to whom was referred the following         
Board Bills, report that they have considered     
the same and recommend adoption.                  
           Board Bill No. 171                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing      
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary     
actions to honorarily designate the 5300 block    
of Wells Avenue as "Mr. Lee "The Rose Man"        
Nixon Way."                                       
           Board Bill No. 223                     
     An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above   
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for       
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in      
alleys in City Block 1033 as bounded by           
Martin Luther King Drive, Cardinal Ave.,          
School St. and Compton Ave. in the City of        
St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described,    
in accordance with Charter authority, and in      
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of      
the Charter and imposing certain conditions       
on such vacation.                                 
           Board Bill No. 252                     
     An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to vacate above surface,        
surface and sub-surface rights for vehicle,       
equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1) Second     
Street from Palm to Branch. 2) Palm Street        
beginning 130 feet east of Broadway and           
continuing eastwardly ? 368 feet to a point on    
Palm previously vacated by Ordinance 45289        
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as            
hereinafter described, in accordance with         
Charter authority, and in conformity with         
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and      
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.     
           Board Bill No. 292                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing      
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary     
actions to honorarily designate Howard Street     
as "Jack Patel Street."                           
           Board Bill No. 296                     
    An Ordinance, recommended by the              
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis  
 (the "Board of Public Service"), establishing      
 public works and improvement projects for          
 the design and construction of three (3)           
 Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Projects         
 involving traffic signal interconnection and       
 upgrades (the "CMAQ Projects") including           
 the Vandeventer Avenue CMAQ Project from           
 Forest Park to St. Louis Avenue (the               
 "Vandeventer CMAQ Project"), the West              
 Florissant Avenue CMAQ Project from                
 Goodfellow Boulevard to Grand Boulevard            
 (the "West Florissant CMAQ Project"), and          
 the Lindell Boulevard and Olive Street CMAQ        
 Project from Skinker Boulevard to Fourteenth       
 Street (the Lindell/Olive CMAQ Project"); and      
 authorizing and directing the City of St. Louis    
 (the "City"), by and through its Board of          
 Public Service, to let contracts and provide       
 for the design, construction, materials, and       
 equipment for the CMAQ Projects,                   
 authorizing the Board of Public Service to         
 employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,        
 fees and wages, acquire real property interests,   
 and to enter into supplemental agreements          
 with the Missouri Highway and                      
 Transportation Commission, Federal                 
 Highway Administration, utilities, and other       
 governmental agencies for the CMAQ                 
 Projects all in accordance with the federal        
 Transportation Equity Act for the 21st             
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with any         
 contract containing sections for: description      
 of the work, material guarantees, estimated        
 expenditure allocations, fund reversion            
 authorization, applicable federal and state        
 wage rate requirements, equal opportunity          
 provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,          
 and contract advertising statutes; requiring that  
 all work provided for herein shall be carried      
 out in accordance with detailed plans and          
 specifications adopted and approved by the         
 Board of Public Service before bids are            
 advertised therefore; directing that all           
 construction contracts let by authority of this    
 Ordinance provide for federal and state            
 prevailing wages requirements including            
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and       
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the     
 State of Missouri, the City Charter and the        
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;              
 requiring all specifications approved by the       
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by       
 authority of this Ordinance provide for            
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders       
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/              
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when             
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state       
 law or regulation; requiring all advertisements    
 for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject     
 to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as       
 amended; and appropriating the total               
 estimated cost of the three (3) CMAQ               
 Projects of Ten Million One Hundred                
 Thousand Dollars ($10,100,000.00) which            
 includes the Vandeventer Avenue CMAQ             
 Project estimated cost of Two Million Seven      
 Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,700,000.00),        
 the West Florissant Avenue CMAQ Project          
 estimated cost of Two Million Eight Hundred      
 Thousand Dollars ($2,800,000.00), and the        
 Lindell/Olive CMAQ Project estimated cost        
 of Four Million Six Hundred Thousand             
 Dollars ($4,600,000.00) from various sources     
 including the Federal Highway Administration     
 Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient           
 Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for          
 Users (SAFETEA-LU), the Leasehold                
 Revenue Bond Series 2008 Fund, and the City      
 Major Capital Fund; authorizing and directing    
 the Comptroller of the City to draw warrants     
 from time to time and disburse funds             
 appropriated by this ordinance and to receive    
 and disburse grant funds in accordance with      
 the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st        
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the        
 signature and certification of vouchers by the   
 President of the Board of Public Service; and    
 containing a public work emergency clause.       
      Alderman Bosley                             
      Chairman of the Committee                   
      Ms. Young of the Committee on               
 Transportation and Commerce submitted the        
 following report which was read.                 
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,          
 November 21, 2008.                               
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
      The Committee on Transportation and         
 Commerce to whom was referred the                
 following Board Bills, report that they have     
 considered the same and recommend adoption.      
             Board Bill No. 17                    
       An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
 authorizing and directing (I) the issuance by    
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri of its Airport   
 Revenue Bonds, Series 2008a, Lambert-St.         
 Louis International Airport(R) in an aggregate   
 principal amount not to exceed Two Hundred       
 Fifty Million Dollars ($250,000,000) (the        
 "Series 2008a Bonds") in one or more Series      
 as part of the $3,500,000,000 of bonds           
 approved by the voters in 1991 and 2003, to      
 finance the cost of the purchase, construction,  
 extension and improvement of the airport, to     
 reimburse the city for certain prior Airport     
 Capital Expenditures, to fund capitalized        
 interest, if any, and, if deemed desirable, to   
 pay all or a portion of the airport's outstanding
 commercial paper, if any, issued for such        
 purposes; and (Ii) the issuance, if any, by the  
 City of St. Louis, Missouri of its Airport       
 Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2008b,           
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R), in   
an aggregate principal amount not to exceed        
Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) (the           
"Series 2008b Refunding Bonds" and, together       
with the Series 2008a Bonds, the "Series 2008      
Bonds") in one or more series to effect the        
refunding of a portion of the City's               
Outstanding Airport Revenue Bonds;                 
providing for the funding of any required          
reserve funds and for the payment of costs of      
issuance and other related transaction costs       
with respect to the Series 2008 Bonds; setting     
forth terms and conditions for the issuance of     
the Series 2008 Bonds; appointing a trustee, a     
bond registrar and a paying agent in connection    
with the Series 2008 Bonds; appointing an          
escrow agent in connection with any                
outstanding bonds to be refunded with the          
proceeds of the Series 2008b Refunding             
Bonds; approving the form and authorizing          
the execution and delivery of the Sixteenth        
Supplemental Indenture of Trust with respect       
to the Issuance of the Series 2008a Bonds and      
the Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture of          
Trust with respect to the issuance of any Series   
2008b Refunding Bonds including any                
conforming or clarifying amendments to the         
Amended and Restated Indenture of Trust, as        
amended and supplemented, of the City;             
authorizing the negotiated sale of the Series      
2008 Bonds and the execution and delivery of       
a bond purchase agreement, an escrow               
agreement, if any, and other matters with          
respect thereto; authorizing the preparation,      
execution and distribution of the preliminary      
official statement and the official statement      
and the preparation, execution and delivery        
of the Continuing Disclosure Agreement;            
authorizing the negotiation and purchase of        
credit enhancement (including Bond Insurance,      
Credit Facilities, and Sureties), if any, and any  
necessary related documents; declaring the         
official intent of the City to reimburse Itself    
out of the proceeds of the Series 2008a Bonds      
for certain prior expenditures of the City for     
purposes of Treasury Regulation Section            
1.150-2; authorizing the proper officials,         
agents and employees of the City to execute        
such documents and to take such actions as         
are necessary or appropriate in connection         
with the foregoing matters; repealing              
Ordinances of the City to the extent               
inconsistent with the terms hereof; and            
containing a severability clause and emergency     
clause.                                            
     Alderwoman Young                              
     Chairman of the Committee                     
           REPORT OF                               
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                          
     None.                                         
       PERFECTION CONSENT                          
            CALENDAR                               
      Mr. Wessels moved that the following         
 Board Bills before the Board for perfection,     
 be perfected as reported out of Committee        
 with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board         
 Bills No. 238, 242, 243, 278, 274, 275, 276,     
 277 and 239.                                     
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
       Ms. Hanrahan moved to suspend the          
 rules for the purpose of moving the following    
 Board Bills to the third reading calendar for    
 final passage: Board Bills No. 265, 238, 242,    
 243, 278, 274, 275, 276, 277 and 239.            
      Seconded by Mr. Villa                       
      Carried by the following vote:              
       Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Ford-       
 Griffin, Triplett, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,     
 Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Roddy,         
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,        
 Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,        
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 25           
      Noes: 0                                     
      Present: 0                                  
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and    
 final passage of Board Bills No. 265, 238,       
 242, 243, 278, 274, 275, 276, 277, 239, 261      
 (Committee Substitute), 260, 269, 270, 271,      
 272, 273 and 254.                                
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                      
      Carried by the following vote:              
       Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Ford-       
 Griffin, Triplett, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,     
 Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Roddy,         
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,        
 Hanrahan, Waterhouse, Kirner, Williamson,        
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 25           
      Noes: 0                                     
      Present: 0                                  
            Board Bill No. 265                    
      An Ordinance designating a portion of       
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a             
 Redevelopment Area known as the 3693             
 Forest Park Redevelopment Area pursuant to       
 the Real Property Tax Increment Allocation       
 Redevelopment Act; approving a                   
 Redevelopment Plan and a Redevelopment           
 Project with respect thereto; adopting Tax       
 Increment financing within the Redevelopment     
 Area; making findings with respect thereto;      
 establishing the 3693 Forest Park Special        
 Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions     
 by City officials and containing a severability  
 clause.                                          
            Board Bill No. 238                  
      An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on October 1, 2008, to     
 change the zoning of property as indicated on  
 the District Map, from the "A" Single-Family   
 Dwelling District and the "F" Neighborhood     
 Commercial District to the "G" Local           
 Commercial and Office District, in City Block  
 5245 (4852, 4858, 4860 & 4862 Austria Street,  
 4857, 4861 & 4865 Germania Street and 7320     
 Gravois Avenue), so as to include the described
 parcels of land in City Block 5245; and        
 containing an emergency clause.                
            Board Bill No. 242                  
      An Ordinance to repeal Ordinance          
 #68009, approved June 25, 2008, relating to    
 establishing and creating a Planned Unit       
 Development District for a portion of City     
 Block 3893 to be known as the "City Walk on    
 Euclid Planned Unit Development District".     
            Board Bill No. 243                  
      An ordinance establishing and creating a  
 Planned Unit Development District for a        
 portion of City Block 3893 to be known as      
 the "City Walk on Euclid Planned Unit          
 Development District".                         
            Board Bill No. 278                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the          
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment            
 amending Ordinance No. 67060 pertaining to     
 the issuance and delivery of tax increment     
 revenue notes for the Grand Center             
 Redevelopment Project and authorizing a First  
 Supplemental Trust Indenture and Note          
 Purchase Agreement relating thereto;           
 prescribing other matters relating thereto; and
 containing a severability clause and an        
 emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 274                  
       An Ordinance recommended and             
 approved by the Board of Estimate and          
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the    
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller for   
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter    
 into and execute on behalf of the City a "Third
 Amendment" to the Airport Lease Agreement      
 dated January 1, 1985, as authorized by        
 Ordinance 59733 approved February 26,          
 1986, as amended by the "First Amendment"      
 dated April 7, 1992, authorized by Ordinance   
 62604 approved March 31, 1992, and as          
 amended and completely restated in the         
 Restated and Second Amendment dated            
 December 17, 2001, authorized by 65245         
 approved July 18, 2001 (the "Restated and      
 Amended Lease Agreement AL-154"); this         
 "Third Amendment" to the Restated And          
 Amended Lease Agreement AL-154", which         
 was approved by the City's Airport             
 Commission and the City's Board of Estimate    
 and Apportionment and is attached hereto as    
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof,            
adds certain real property known as Tract II-     
D to the Premises as more fully described in      
Section One of this Ordinance; containing a       
severability clause; and containing an            
emergency clause.                                 
           Board Bill No. 275                     
      An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment               
authorizing and directing the Director of         
Airports and the Comptroller of the City of       
St. Louis (the "City") to enter into and execute  
on behalf of the City the "First Amendment        
To Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)     
(the `Airport') Concession Agreement (On-         
Airport Passenger Vehicle Rental)" (the "First    
Amendment") to the On-Airport Passenger           
Vehicle Rental Concession Agreement AL-251        
between the City and C&J Rental Inc., d/b/a       
Thrifty Car Rental, Inc., a corporation of the    
State of Missouri, dated December 10, 2003,       
and authorized by City Ordinance No. 66074,       
approved November 4, 2003 (the                    
"Agreement"); the First Amendment to the          
Agreement, which is attached hereto as            
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof,            
was approved by the City's Airport                
Commission, and its terms are more fully          
described in Section One of this Ordinance;       
providing that the provisions set forth in this   
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to      
the Agreement as amended by the First             
Amendment; containing a severability clause;      
and containing an emergency clause.               
           Board Bill No. 276                     
      An Ordinance pursuant to Sections           
70.210-70.320 of the Revised Statutes of          
Missouri (2000) and recommended by the            
Airport Commission; authorizing and directing     
the Mayor and the Comptroller on behalf of        
The City of St. Louis (the "City") to execute     
and deliver an intergovernmental cooperation      
and development assistance agreement (the         
"Cooperation Agreement") by and among the         
State of Missouri, acting by and through its      
Department of Economic Development, the           
County of St. Louis, Missouri, and the City       
concerning the formation of an                    
intergovernmental joint cooperation and           
development commission (the "Commission")         
to further assess the potential for, and support  
to the extent appropriate, an Air Freight Hub     
Initiative and a Commercial Hub Initiative, as    
defined in the Cooperation Agreement,             
between China and the Midwest region of the       
United States; making certain findings and        
determining and declaring the official intent of  
the City with respect thereto; prescribing and    
approving the form and details of said            
Cooperation Agreement and authorizing its         
execution by the Mayor; appointing a              
member to the Commission's governing body;        
and containing a severability clause.             
            Board Bill No. 277                     
       An Ordinance recommended and                
 approved by the Board of Estimate and             
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter       
 into and execute on behalf of the City the        
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
 Public Communications Services Concession         
 Agreement AL-434 (the "Agreement"),               
 between the City and Power Station LLC, a         
 Nevada corporation (the "Concessionaire"),        
 granting to the Concessionaire the non-           
 exclusive right, license, obligation, and         
 privilege to design, construct, operate, manage,  
 and maintain a Public Communication Services      
 concession within the premises as described       
 in the Agreement, subject to and in accordance    
 with the terms, covenants, and conditions of      
 the Agreement, which was approved by the          
 Airport Commission and is attached hereto         
 as ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part                 
 hereof; providing that the provisions set forth   
 in this Ordinance shall be applicable             
 exclusively to the Agreement; containing a        
 severability clause; and containing an            
 emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 239                     
       An ordinance pertaining to check-           
 cashing and short-term loan establishments;       
 repealing Ordinance 64836 and 64837;              
 amending Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance 64836,     
 codified in Section 26.08.101 of the Revised      
 Code of the City of St. Louis, and enacting in    
 lieu thereof a new section pertaining to the      
 same subject matter defining check-cashing        
 establishments; amending Sections 1 and 2 of      
 Ordinance 64837, codified in Section              
 26.08.384 of the Revised Code of the City of      
 St. Louis, and enacting in lieu thereof a new     
 section pertaining to the same subject matter     
 defining short-term loan establishments;          
 containing severability clause.                   
          Board Bill No. 261                       
        (Committee Substitute)                     
       An ordinance, recommended by the            
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,              
 authorizing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis,   
 on behalf of the City, to submit a Substantial    
 Amendment to the 2009 Annual Action Plan          
 to the United States Department of Housing        
 and Urban Development ("HUD") as                  
 required to apply for City of St. Louis           
 entitlement funding (hereinafter referred to as   
 "NSP Entitlement Funding") under Title III        
 of Division B of the Housing and Economic         
 Recovery Act of 2008, for the purpose of          
 assisting in the redevelopment of abandoned       
 and foreclosed homes under the Emergency          
 Assistance for Redevelopment of Abandoned         
 and Foreclosed Homes heading, hereinafter         
 referred to as the Neighborhood Stabilization     
 Program ("NSP"), further authorizing the        
 Mayor of the City of St. Louis, on behalf of    
 the City, to submit an application to the State 
 of Missouri for the purpose of securing for     
 the City additional NSP funding awarded to      
 the State of Missouri (hereinafter referred to  
 as "State NSP Funding"), authorizing and        
 directing the Mayor and the Comptroller on      
 behalf of the City to enter into and execute an 
 agreement or agreements with HUD for the        
 receipt of NSP Entitlement Funding and an       
 agreement or agreements with HUD and/or         
 the State of Missouri and/or agencies and/or    
 commissions thereof for State NSP Funding,      
 appropriating the sum of Five Million Two       
 Hundred Seventy-Eight Thousand Five             
 Hundred Forty-Five Dollars ($5,532,792)         
 which the City has been allocated in NSP        
 Entitlement Funding; appropriating the lesser   
 of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) or such    
 lesser amount of State NSP Funding as may       
 be awarded to the City; authorizing and         
 directing the Director of the Community         
 Development Administration ("CDA") to           
 contract with municipal agencies, non-profit    
 corporations and other entities, as necessary   
 for the expenditure of NSP Entitlement          
 Funding and State NSP Funding; and directing    
 the Comptroller to issue warrants thereon       
 upon the City Treasury; and containing an       
 emergency clause.                               
            Board Bill No. 260                   
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment             
 authorizing and directing the issuance and      
 delivery of not to exceed $4,227,000 plus       
 issuance costs principal amount of Tax          
 Increment Revenue Notes (Chemical Building      
 Redevelopment Project) Series 200_-A/B, of      
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing    
 the form and details of such notes and the      
 covenants and agreements made by the City       
 to facilitate and protect the payment thereof;  
 prescribing other matters relating thereto, and 
 containing a severability clause.               
            Board Bill No. 269                   
      An Ordinance designating a portion of      
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a            
 Redevelopment Area known as the 374 South       
 Grand Redevelopment Area pursuant to the        
 Real Property Tax Increment Allocation          
 Redevelopment Act; designating two              
 redevelopment project areas within the          
 Redevelopment Area; approving a                 
 Redevelopment Plan and two Redevelopment        
 Projects with respect thereto; adopting tax     
 increment financing within the Redevelopment    
 Area; making findings with respect thereto;     
 establishing the 374 South Grand Special        
 Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions    
 by City officials; and containing a severability
 clause.                                         
           Board Bill No. 270                    
     An Ordinance affirming adoption of a        
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,          
Redevelopment Project Areas and                  
Redevelopment Projects; authorizing the          
execution of a redevelopment agreement           
between the City of St. Louis and Union          
Square Enterprises, LLC; prescribing the form    
and details of said agreement; designating       
Union Square Enterprises, LLC as developer       
of Redevelopment Project Area 1; making          
certain findings with respect thereto;           
authorizing other related actions in connection  
with the redevelopment of certain property       
within the Redevelopment Area; and containing    
a severability clause.                           
           Board Bill No. 271                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
authorizing and directing the issuance and       
delivery of not to exceed $3,300,000 plus        
issuance costs principal amount of Tax           
Increment Revenue Notes (374 South Grand         
Redevelopment Project Area 1) Series 200_-       
A/B, of the City of St. Louis, Missouri;         
prescribing the form and details of such notes   
and the covenants and agreements made by         
the City to facilitate and protect the payment   
thereof; prescribing other matters relating      
thereto, and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 272                    
     An Ordinance affirming Adoption of a        
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,          
Redevelopment Project Areas and                  
Redevelopment Projects; authorizing the          
execution of a redevelopment agreement           
between the City of St. Louis and Geyer          
Avenue Developments, LLC; prescribing the        
form and details of said agreement; designating  
Geyer Avenue Developments, LLC as                
developer of Redevelopment Project Area 2;       
making certain findings with respect thereto;    
authorizing other related actions in connection  
with the redevelopment of certain property       
within the Redevelopment Area; and containing    
a severability clause.                           
           Board Bill No. 273                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
Authorizing and directing the issuance and       
delivery of not to exceed $1,250,000 plus        
issuance costs principal amount of Tax           
Increment Revenue Notes (374 South Grand         
Redevelopment Project Area 2) Series 200_-       
A/B, of the City of St. Louis, Missouri;         
prescribing the form and details of such notes   
and the covenants and agreements made by         
the City to facilitate and protect the payment   
thereof; prescribing other matters relating      
thereto, and containing a severability clause.   
            Board Bill No. 254                    
       An ordinance enacted pursuant to           
 Section 56.540, Revised Statutes of Missouri     
 to amend Ordinance No. 68119 relating to the     
 Office of the Circuit Attorney of the City of    
 St. Louis, addressing the positions established  
 by said Section 56.540, R.S.Mo. and              
 correcting a clerical error in the official bi-  
 weekly pay schedule for classification grades    
 and containing an emergency clause.              
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
        OF BOARD BILLS                            
       None.                                      
         REPORT OF THE                            
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                         
      Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,        
 St. Louis, November 21, 2008.                    
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
       The Committee on Engrossed and             
 Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the          
 following Board Bills report that they have      
 considered the same and they are truly           
 enrolled.                                        
            Board Bill No. 265                    
      An Ordinance designating a portion of       
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a             
 Redevelopment Area known as the 3693             
 Forest Park Redevelopment Area pursuant to       
 the Real Property Tax Increment Allocation       
 Redevelopment Act; approving a                   
 Redevelopment Plan and a Redevelopment           
 Project with respect thereto; adopting Tax       
 Increment financing within the Redevelopment     
 Area; making findings with respect thereto;      
 establishing the 3693 Forest Park Special        
 Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions     
 by City officials and containing a severability  
 clause.                                          
            Board Bill No. 238                    
      An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission on October 1, 2008, to       
 change the zoning of property as indicated on    
 the District Map, from the "A" Single-Family     
 Dwelling District and the "F" Neighborhood       
 Commercial District to the "G" Local             
 Commercial and Office District, in City Block    
 5245 (4852, 4858, 4860 & 4862 Austria Street,    
 4857, 4861 & 4865 Germania Street and 7320       
 Gravois Avenue), so as to include the described  
 parcels of land in City Block 5245; and          
 containing an emergency clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 242                    
      An Ordinance to repeal Ordinance            
 #68009, approved June 25, 2008, relating to      
 establishing and creating a Planned Unit         
 Development District for a portion of City       
 Block 3893 to be known as the "City Walk on     
 Euclid Planned Unit Development District".      
            Board Bill No. 243                   
      An ordinance establishing and creating a   
 Planned Unit Development District for a         
 portion of City Block 3893 to be known as       
 the "City Walk on Euclid Planned Unit           
 Development District".                          
            Board Bill No. 278                   
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment             
 amending Ordinance No. 67060 pertaining to      
 the issuance and delivery of tax increment      
 revenue notes for the Grand Center              
 Redevelopment Project and authorizing a First   
 Supplemental Trust Indenture and Note           
 Purchase Agreement relating thereto;            
 prescribing other matters relating thereto; and 
 containing a severability clause and an         
 emergency clause.                               
            Board Bill No. 274                   
       An Ordinance recommended and              
 approved by the Board of Estimate and           
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the     
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller for    
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter     
 into and execute on behalf of the City a "Third 
 Amendment" to the Airport Lease Agreement       
 dated January 1, 1985, as authorized by         
 Ordinance 59733 approved February 26,           
 1986, as amended by the "First Amendment"       
 dated April 7, 1992, authorized by Ordinance    
 62604 approved March 31, 1992, and as           
 amended and completely restated in the          
 Restated and Second Amendment dated             
 December 17, 2001, authorized by 65245          
 approved July 18, 2001 (the "Restated and       
 Amended Lease Agreement AL-154"); this          
 "Third Amendment" to the Restated And           
 Amended Lease Agreement AL-154", which          
 was approved by the City's Airport              
 Commission and the City's Board of Estimate     
 and Apportionment and is attached hereto as     
 ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof,          
 adds certain real property known as Tract II-   
 D to the Premises as more fully described in    
 Section One of this Ordinance; containing a     
 severability clause; and containing an          
 emergency clause.                               
            Board Bill No. 275                   
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment             
 authorizing and directing the Director of       
 Airports and the Comptroller of the City of     
 St. Louis (the "City") to enter into and execute
 on behalf of the City the "First Amendment      
 To Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)   
 (the `Airport') Concession Agreement (On-       
 Airport Passenger Vehicle Rental)" (the "First  
 Amendment") to the On-Airport Passenger         
 Vehicle Rental Concession Agreement AL-251      
between the City and C&J Rental Inc., d/b/a       
Thrifty Car Rental, Inc., a corporation of the    
State of Missouri, dated December 10, 2003,       
and authorized by City Ordinance No. 66074,       
approved November 4, 2003 (the                    
"Agreement"); the First Amendment to the          
Agreement, which is attached hereto as            
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof,            
was approved by the City's Airport                
Commission, and its terms are more fully          
described in Section One of this Ordinance;       
providing that the provisions set forth in this   
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to      
the Agreement as amended by the First             
Amendment; containing a severability clause;      
and containing an emergency clause.               
           Board Bill No. 276                     
      An Ordinance pursuant to Sections           
70.210-70.320 of the Revised Statutes of          
Missouri (2000) and recommended by the            
Airport Commission; authorizing and directing     
the Mayor and the Comptroller on behalf of        
The City of St. Louis (the "City") to execute     
and deliver an intergovernmental cooperation      
and development assistance agreement (the         
"Cooperation Agreement") by and among the         
State of Missouri, acting by and through its      
Department of Economic Development, the           
County of St. Louis, Missouri, and the City       
concerning the formation of an                    
intergovernmental joint cooperation and           
development commission (the "Commission")         
to further assess the potential for, and support  
to the extent appropriate, an Air Freight Hub     
Initiative and a Commercial Hub Initiative, as    
defined in the Cooperation Agreement,             
between China and the Midwest region of the       
United States; making certain findings and        
determining and declaring the official intent of  
the City with respect thereto; prescribing and    
approving the form and details of said            
Cooperation Agreement and authorizing its         
execution by the Mayor; appointing a              
member to the Commission's governing body;        
and containing a severability clause.             
           Board Bill No. 277                     
      An Ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Board of Estimate and             
Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter       
into and execute on behalf of the City the        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
Public Communications Services Concession         
Agreement AL-434 (the "Agreement"),               
between the City and Power Station LLC, a         
Nevada corporation (the "Concessionaire"),        
granting to the Concessionaire the non-           
exclusive right, license, obligation, and         
privilege to design, construct, operate, manage,  
and maintain a Public Communication Services      
concession within the premises as described       
 in the Agreement, subject to and in accordance   
 with the terms, covenants, and conditions of     
 the Agreement, which was approved by the         
 Airport Commission and is attached hereto        
 as ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part                
 hereof; providing that the provisions set forth  
 in this Ordinance shall be applicable            
 exclusively to the Agreement; containing a       
 severability clause; and containing an           
 emergency clause.                                
            Board Bill No. 239                    
       An ordinance pertaining to check-          
 cashing and short-term loan establishments;      
 repealing Ordinance 64836 and 64837;             
 amending Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance 64836,    
 codified in Section 26.08.101 of the Revised     
 Code of the City of St. Louis, and enacting in   
 lieu thereof a new section pertaining to the     
 same subject matter defining check-cashing       
 establishments; amending Sections 1 and 2 of     
 Ordinance 64837, codified in Section             
 26.08.384 of the Revised Code of the City of     
 St. Louis, and enacting in lieu thereof a new    
 section pertaining to the same subject matter    
 defining short-term loan establishments;         
 containing severability clause.                  
          Board Bill No. 261                      
        (Committee Substitute)                    
       An ordinance, recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 authorizing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis,  
 on behalf of the City, to submit a Substantial   
 Amendment to the 2009 Annual Action Plan         
 to the United States Department of Housing       
 and Urban Development ("HUD") as                 
 required to apply for City of St. Louis          
 entitlement funding (hereinafter referred to as  
 "NSP Entitlement Funding") under Title III       
 of Division B of the Housing and Economic        
 Recovery Act of 2008, for the purpose of         
 assisting in the redevelopment of abandoned      
 and foreclosed homes under the Emergency         
 Assistance for Redevelopment of Abandoned        
 and Foreclosed Homes heading, hereinafter        
 referred to as the Neighborhood Stabilization    
 Program ("NSP"), further authorizing the         
 Mayor of the City of St. Louis, on behalf of     
 the City, to submit an application to the State  
 of Missouri for the purpose of securing for      
 the City additional NSP funding awarded to       
 the State of Missouri (hereinafter referred to   
 as "State NSP Funding"), authorizing and         
 directing the Mayor and the Comptroller on       
 behalf of the City to enter into and execute an  
 agreement or agreements with HUD for the         
 receipt of NSP Entitlement Funding and an        
 agreement or agreements with HUD and/or          
 the State of Missouri and/or agencies and/or     
 commissions thereof for State NSP Funding,       
 appropriating the sum of Five Million Two        
 Hundred Seventy-Eight Thousand Five              
 Hundred Forty-Five Dollars ($5,532,792)          
 which the City has been allocated in NSP        
 Entitlement Funding; appropriating the lesser   
 of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) or such    
 lesser amount of State NSP Funding as may       
 be awarded to the City; authorizing and         
 directing the Director of the Community         
 Development Administration ("CDA") to           
 contract with municipal agencies, non-profit    
 corporations and other entities, as necessary   
 for the expenditure of NSP Entitlement          
 Funding and State NSP Funding; and directing    
 the Comptroller to issue warrants thereon       
 upon the City Treasury; and containing an       
 emergency clause.                               
            Board Bill No. 260                   
       An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment             
 authorizing and directing the issuance and      
 delivery of not to exceed $4,227,000 plus       
 issuance costs principal amount of Tax          
 Increment Revenue Notes (Chemical Building      
 Redevelopment Project) Series 200_-A/B, of      
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing    
 the form and details of such notes and the      
 covenants and agreements made by the City       
 to facilitate and protect the payment thereof;  
 prescribing other matters relating thereto, and 
 containing a severability clause.               
            Board Bill No. 269                   
      An Ordinance designating a portion of      
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a            
 Redevelopment Area known as the 374 South       
 Grand Redevelopment Area pursuant to the        
 Real Property Tax Increment Allocation          
 Redevelopment Act; designating two              
 redevelopment project areas within the          
 Redevelopment Area; approving a                 
 Redevelopment Plan and two Redevelopment        
 Projects with respect thereto; adopting tax     
 increment financing within the Redevelopment    
 Area; making findings with respect thereto;     
 establishing the 374 South Grand Special        
 Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions    
 by City officials; and containing a severability
 clause.                                         
            Board Bill No. 270                   
      An Ordinance affirming adoption of a       
 Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,         
 Redevelopment Project Areas and                 
 Redevelopment Projects; authorizing the         
 execution of a redevelopment agreement          
 between the City of St. Louis and Union         
 Square Enterprises, LLC; prescribing the form   
 and details of said agreement; designating      
 Union Square Enterprises, LLC as developer      
 of Redevelopment Project Area 1; making         
 certain findings with respect thereto;          
 authorizing other related actions in connection 
 with the redevelopment of certain property      
 within the Redevelopment Area; and containing   
 a severability clause.                          
           Board Bill No. 271                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
authorizing and directing the issuance and       
delivery of not to exceed $3,300,000 plus        
issuance costs principal amount of Tax           
Increment Revenue Notes (374 South Grand         
Redevelopment Project Area 1) Series 200_-       
A/B, of the City of St. Louis, Missouri;         
prescribing the form and details of such notes   
and the covenants and agreements made by         
the City to facilitate and protect the payment   
thereof; prescribing other matters relating      
thereto, and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 272                    
     An Ordinance affirming Adoption of a        
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,          
Redevelopment Project Areas and                  
Redevelopment Projects; authorizing the          
execution of a redevelopment agreement           
between the City of St. Louis and Geyer          
Avenue Developments, LLC; prescribing the        
form and details of said agreement; designating  
Geyer Avenue Developments, LLC as                
developer of Redevelopment Project Area 2;       
making certain findings with respect thereto;    
authorizing other related actions in connection  
with the redevelopment of certain property       
within the Redevelopment Area; and containing    
a severability clause.                           
           Board Bill No. 273                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
Authorizing and directing the issuance and       
delivery of not to exceed $1,250,000 plus        
issuance costs principal amount of Tax           
Increment Revenue Notes (374 South Grand         
Redevelopment Project Area 2) Series 200_-       
A/B, of the City of St. Louis, Missouri;         
prescribing the form and details of such notes   
and the covenants and agreements made by         
the City to facilitate and protect the payment   
thereof; prescribing other matters relating      
thereto, and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 254                    
      An ordinance enacted pursuant to           
Section 56.540, Revised Statutes of Missouri     
to amend Ordinance No. 68119 relating to the     
Office of the Circuit Attorney of the City of    
St. Louis, addressing the positions established  
by said Section 56.540, R.S.Mo. and              
correcting a clerical error in the official bi-  
weekly pay schedule for classification grades    
and containing an emergency clause.              
     Alderman Ortmann                            
     Chairman of the Committee                   
     Board Bills Numbered 238, 239, 242,         
243, 254, 260, 261 (Committee Substitute),       
265, 269, 270, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275, 276,     
277 and 278 were read and all other business     
 being suspended, Mr. Reed, in the presence        
 of the Board and in open session, affixed his     
 signature in accordance with the provisions       
 of the Charter.                                   
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                         
        CONSENT CALENDAR                           
       President Reed introduced Resolutions       
 No. 242 though 251 and the Clerk was              
 instructed to read same.                          
           Resolution No. 242                      
       Fr. William Hutchinson, SJ                  
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
 Fr. William Hutchinson, SJ is being honored       
 as part of the Bank of America Neighborhood       
 Excellence Initiative as a Hero; and              
      WHEREAS, since 1973 Fr. William              
 Hutchison, SJ, has been a catalyst in The Ville   
 and Greater Ville neighborhoods of St. Louis,     
 Missouri where he helped start Northside          
 Community Center (NCC); and                       
      WHEREAS, using St. Matthew Church            
 as a base, Fr. Hutchison gathered several         
 neighborhood residents to discuss human           
 service needs in the neighborhood. He             
 successfully wrote government, foundation         
 and corporate grants to renovate a building       
 and start a Senior Citizen Center; and            
        WHEREAS, the Center serves 400 home        
 delivered meals and 50 congregate meals           
 Monday through Friday via the Older               
 Americans Act through the St. Louis Area          
 Agency on Aging. The Center also operates         
 three vans for transportation to clinics,         
 shopping, and recreation. Each year               
 approximately 400 Senior Citizens are assisted    
 in filling out "circuit breaker" forms to assist  
 low-income seniors receive property tax or        
 rental refunds. Many seniors receive over         
 $500. The Center has been a United Way            
 agency for 15 years; and                          
      WHEREAS, Fr. Hutchinson is an active         
 community leader who sees a problem and           
 moves quickly to solve it, an excellent           
 motivator who inspires others to "join the        
 cause" and work collectively towards a remedy     
 and knows how to obtain financial as well as      
 human resources to bring about positive           
 community change.                                 
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize and honor Fr.          
 William Hutchinson, SJ and we wish him            
 continued success, achievement and                
 accomplishment and we further direct the          
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this      
 Resolution across the minutes of these            
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy to the end that it may be presented to       
 our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008     
 by:                                              
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward      
            Resolution No. 243                    
  International Institute of St. Louis            
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that        
 the International Institute of St. Louis is being
 honored as part of the Bank of America           
 Neighborhood Excellence Initiative as a          
 Builder; and                                     
       WHEREAS, since 1919, the                   
 International Institute has worked to            
 strengthen the St. Louis community by helping    
 immigrants and their families become secure      
 and successful Americans and by promoting        
 the value of ethnic diversity in the social,     
 cultural, and economic life of our region; and   
      WHEREAS, the International Institute        
 has successfully revitalized neighborhoods       
 through the innovative use of "asset building"   
 and "economic development" programs; and         
       WHEREAS, the International Institute       
 is recognized as a leader in the area of business
 development programs especially for              
 immigrants and refugees                          
      WHEREAS, the International Institute        
 has accomplished in less than ten years their    
 "Microloan" and "technical assistance"           
 programs which have generated $77 million        
 dollars in economic impact to the City of St.    
 Louis; and                                       
      WHEREAS, their financial literacy           
 program insures the long term social and         
 economic viability of the neighborhood; and      
       WHEREAS, the International Institute       
 of St. Louis is a visionary organization whose   
 services improve the lives of individuals,       
 families, and the business community where       
 they live and work.                              
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize and honor the         
 International Institute of St. Louis and we      
 wish them continued success, achievement and     
 accomplishment and we further direct the         
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this     
 Resolution across the minutes of these           
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that it may be presented to      
 our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008     
 by:                                              
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward  
           Resolution No. 244                       
          William (Bill) Olson                      
     Whereas, we have been apprised that            
William (Bill) Olson is retiring from the Water     
Division of the City of St. Louis after more        
than 20 years of dedicated service; and             
      Whereas, Bill Olson served with               
distinction in the United States Army and           
during his tour of duty spent time in Korea;        
and                                                 
    Whereas, Bill Olson was a proud                 
member of Local 2 of the International Union        
of Operating Engineers and served as Shop           
Steward thereof; and                                
     Whereas, Mr. Olson worked for several          
years for the Archdiocese of Greater St. Louis      
serving with great skill prior to his City career;  
and                                                 
      Whereas, Bill Olson served the Water          
Division and all of our citizens first as a Watch   
Stationary Engineer and for the past 10 years       
as a Supervising Stationary Engineer; and           
      Whereas, the public at large has              
benefited from Bill Olson's community service       
as a volunteer for several civic improvement        
organizations.                                      
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED BY the Board of Aldermen of                
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our         
deliberations to thank and recognize Mr. Bill       
Olson for his long, dedicated and productive        
service to the City of St. Louis and the Water      
Division thereof and we express our best            
wishes to him for good health and happiness         
in his well-deserved retirement and we further      
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy     
of this Resolution across the minutes of these      
proceedings and to further prepare a                
commemorative copy to the end that it may           
be presented to our honoree at a time and           
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.            
Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008        
by:                                                 
Honorable Stephen M. Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward     
Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward           
           Resolution No. 245                       
           Otis "Otie" Cowan                        
      WHEREAS, Otis "Otie" Cowan has                
served as manager of Community Relations            
at St. Louis based Ameren Corporation since         
2000. In this position, he manages the              
company's philanthropic efforts, works with         
elected officials and government agencies to        
further company objectives, identifies              
opportunities to link AmerenUE's customer           
service programs with local communities, and        
represents the company through various civic        
and charitable organizations; and                   
      WHEREAS, before joining Ameren, Mr.              
 Cowan worked for Decatur, Illinois based              
 Illinois Power (now part of Ameren                    
 Corporation and doing business as AmerenIP)           
 for more than 30 years in various capacities,         
 including sales, internal and external                
 communications, community relations and               
 various other management positions; and               
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cowan holds a                       
 Bachelor's of Arts Degree in Sociology from           
 Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. He serves        
 on the boards of Anderson Hospital,                   
 McKendree University, the Leadership                  
 Council of Southwestern Illinois, the American        
 Association of Blacks in Energy (Southeast            
 Missouri and Southern Illinois Chapter),              
 Focus St. Louis and the East St. Louis                
 Financial Advisory Authority - to which he            
 was appointed by the Illinois governor and            
 confirmed by the Illinois legislature to oversee      
 the City of East St. Louis budget under the           
 Distressed Cities Act; and                            
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cowan is a former                   
 board member of East Side Associated                  
 Industries, the United Way of Greater St.             
 Louis and the Urban League of Metropolitan            
 St. Louis; and                                        
       WHEREAS, he also served on the state            
 of Illinois' Infrastructure Task Force.               
 Appointed by the governor of Illinois, this 15        
 member task force was charged with                    
 identifying $12 billion of critical, urgent           
 infrastructure needs in Illinois - subsequently       
 called the Illinois FIRST Program. The state          
 legislature overwhelmingly passed the $12             
 billion in funding proposed by the task force,        
 with few change; and                                  
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cowan has lived in                  
 Edwardsville, Ill. for the past 30 years with         
 his wife, Carlotta. They are the proud parents        
 of one daughter, Collette, of Santa Cruz,             
 California.                                           
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for                 
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to recognize Otis "Otie" Cowan          
 for his tireless service to Ameren and his            
 contributions and guidance on issues relevant         
 to the City of St. Louis and wish him continued       
 success in the future and direct the Clerk of         
 this Board to prepare a commemorative copy            
 of this resolution to the end that it may be          
 presented to our honoree at a time and place          
 deemed appropriate by the sponsor.                    
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008          
 by:                                                   
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
 Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1st Ward      
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward          
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward      
 HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward  
 Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward  
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward      
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward    
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward      
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward      
 Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward       
 Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward        
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard   
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward     
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward  
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward    
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward        
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward       
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward     
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward        
 Honorable Bennice Jones-King,Alderwoman 21st Ward
 Honorable Jeffrey Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward        
 HonorableKathleenHanrahan,Alderwoman23rd Ward    
 Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward  
 Honorable Dorothy Kirner,Alderwoman 25th Ward    
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward    
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward   
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward      
            Resolution No. 246                    
            Mr. Lawrence Willis                   
       WHEREAS, the St. Louis Housing             
 Authority and The Seniors and Disabled           
 Service Committee encourages residents to        
 actively participate in extra-curricular         
 activities; and                                  
      WHEREAS, a number of residents did          
 participate in the 7th Annual Senior             
 Olympics; and                                    
      WHEREAS, a large number of these            
 athletes excelled in their individual            
 competitions; and                                
      WHEREAS, a number of these athletes         
 received medals and commendations for their      
 outstanding performances; and                    
       WHEREAS, Mr. Lawrence Willis, who          
 resides at Cahill House, won the gold medal      
 for his outstanding performance in the billiards 
 competition; and                                 
      WHEREAS, Mr. Lawrence Willis should         
 now be recognized as one of the best billiards   
 player in the St. Louis region; and              
       WHEREAS, Whereas Mr. Lawrence              
 Willis will now be referred to as the "5th Ward  
 Billiard King."                                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize Mr. Lawrence Willis   
 for his stellar accomplishment and we direct     
 the Clerk of this Board to prepare a             
 commemorative copy of this resolution to the     
 end that it may be presented to our honoree at   
a time and place deemed appropriate by the        
sponsor.                                          
Introduced on 21st day of November, 2008          
HonorableApril Ford-Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward   
          Resolution No. 247                      
             Phillip Wamser                       
      WHEREAS, we have been advised that          
on December 28, 2008, the rank of Eagle Scout     
will be awarded to Phillip Wamser who lives       
with his family at 4254 Bates Street, St. Louis,  
Missouri; and                                     
     WHEREAS, Phillip is the son of James         
and Monica Wamser who are both proud and          
happy to announce this momentous                  
accomplishment; and                               
     WHEREAS, Phillip is now a Freshman           
at Truman State University after graduating       
from St. John the Baptist High School where       
he distinguished himself as President of the      
Student Council, as a letterman in baseball       
and soccer and numerous other activities; and     
      WHEREAS, those familiar with                
Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout   
is a goal sought by many but attained by few;     
requiring intelligence, perseverance and a        
strong sense of service to your community;        
and                                               
      WHEREAS, Phillip is a role model for        
all of the younger scouts in Troop 181 and        
will be honored by them along with his family     
and friends at the Eagle Scout Court of Honor     
to be held at St. John the Baptist Church,        
4200 Delor Street, St. Louis, Missouri.           
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis, being apprised of the      
significant recognition to be bestowed on         
Phillip Wamser at the Eagle Scout Court of        
Honor, and wishing in some small way to add       
our congratulations and best wishes to Phillip    
and his family, we pause in our deliberations     
to consider and adopt this resolution and         
instruct the Clerk of this Board to spread a      
copy of this Resolution over the permanent        
rolls of the Board and to further prepare a       
memorial copy of this Resolution so that it       
may be presented to our honoree as deemed         
appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008      
by:                                               
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard    
          Resolution No. 248                      
         Leonard Riggins, Sr.                     
     WHEREAS, Leonard Riggins, Sr. was            
born on October 16, 1956 in Saint Louis,          
Missouri to the union of Hattie and John          
Riggins. To this union 7 children were born,      
 Leonard being the 5th child; and                   
       WHEREAS, Leonard was educated in             
 the Saint Louis Public School System. Upon         
 his graduation from high school, Leonard's life    
 took him from numerous menial jobs, but            
 Leonard hung his hat for 17 years in the Saint     
 Louis Parks Department. Leonard's position         
 was a Park Supervisor; and                         
       WHEREAS, Leonard's ultimate dream            
 and desire was to become a Saint Louis City        
 firefighter; which he realized in 1993. He was     
 a faithful and stalwart employee until his         
 untimely death; and                                
       WHEREAS, Leonard was a man of many           
 gifts and talents. He was attending Bible          
 college where he was pursuing a bachelor's         
 degree in Biblical studies. Leonard was also       
 writing a book on marriage and relationships.      
 He also was a chef's chef; his sun dried delights  
 were enjoyed by all his family. Leonard owned      
 rental properties, invested in commercial real     
 estate, and was a proud homeowner. His             
 greatest accomplishment was his home health        
 care agency, Chevetta in Home Care Services,       
 which he founded out of his basement with          
 his wife, Donita; and                              
      WHEREAS, Leonard was a fun, loving            
 and happy person. He was the family's              
 resident master of the barbeque and                
 entertaining was his forte. His passion was        
 his partner, Donita, his sons Antwan and           
 Leonard Jr., his family and his faith; and         
      WHEREAS, Leonard enjoyed and loved            
 many things, but his breath, heartbeat and         
 pulse was Emmaus Tabernacle Church.                
 Leonard wore multiple hats: Associate Pastor,      
 Sunday School Superintendent and whatever          
 the Lord or Pastor needed to benefit the           
 church; and                                        
      WHEREAS, he leaves to cherish his life        
 memories, his wife Donita; sons Antwan and         
 Leonard, Jr.; 3 grandchildren, Shabria, Kiarra,    
 and Antwan Jr.; 2 sisters and 1 brother,           
 Christine, Bernetta, and Curtis; and was           
 preceded in death by Gloria, Stanley and           
 Lloyd; nephews: Louis, Lavell, Toran, Little       
 Herb, Darrius, Lloyd, Montez, Barry, Ricky,        
 James, Lil Dave, Elgin, Dan Jr., Marlon, JB,       
 Todd, Jeff, TJ, Tonnell, Ronnie, Lil Tony, and     
 Shelton; 2 special godsons: Euwran and Javon;      
 nieces: Tamara, Ralonda, Shalonda, Kira, Miss      
 Ash, TeeTee and ReeRee, Rhea, and Raevynn;         
 a special great nephew, Ketrick; a great niece,    
 Ashley; one special brother-in-law, Big Dave;      
 one special sister-in-law, Deana; and his Best     
 friend, Pastor, Teacher and Mentor, Elder          
 Luther Bell, Jr.                                   
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our         
 deliberations to recognize the contributions        
 and selflessness of Leonard Riggins, Sr. and        
 celebrate his life as an inspiration to all citizens
 of St. Louis and direct the Clerk of this Board     
 to prepare a commemorative copy of this             
 resolution to the end that it may be presented      
 to our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the sponsor.                         
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008        
 by:                                                 
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward        
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
 Honorable Charles Quincy Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward   
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward     
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward         
 HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward     
 Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward     
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward         
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward       
 Honorable Kenneth Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward         
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward         
 Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward          
 Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward           
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard      
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward        
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward     
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward           
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward          
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward        
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward           
 Honorable Bennice Jones-King,Alderwoman 21st Ward   
 Honorable Jeffrey Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward           
 HonorableKathleenHanrahan,Alderwoman23rd Ward       
 Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward     
 Honorable Dorothy Kirner,Alderwoman 25th Ward       
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward       
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward      
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward         
            Resolution No. 249                       
       Ruble Hawkins Steele, Jr.                     
       WHEREAS, we pause in our                      
 deliberations to note the untimely passing of       
 lifelong St. Louis resident, Ruble Hawkins          
 Steele, Jr.; and                                    
       WHEREAS, Ruble Hawkins Steele, Jr.            
 was born the eldest of six children on April        
 24, 1939 in St. Louis, MO to the union of the       
 late Elder Ruble Hawkins Steele, Sr. and Lula       
 Alice Steele growing up under the banner of         
 the Church of God in Christ. He had three           
 brothers, Lynn Carver (Hilda), Marvin Joseph        
 (Kathy) and the late Arnold Ross as well as         
 two sisters, Marlin Rae and Marilyn Sherr           
 (Everett); and                                      
      WHEREAS, he was educated in the St.            
 Louis Public School System. Ruble had a             
 tremendous commitment to his community              
 and country. He served his country as a             
 member of United States Marines. He served          
 his community through his career in law-            
enforcement. He gave twenty-five years of        
service with the City of St. Louis Police        
Department and retired from the St. Louis        
Lambert Airport Police Department. He            
achieved the rank of Sergeant and was            
recognized with numerous citations for service   
and bravery throughout his career; and           
     WHEREAS, he leaves to cherish his           
memory his adoring wife Roberta, eight           
children; Ruble H. Steele III, Robin Steele-     
Starks (Leon), Rosalind Wash (Darnell), Jacob    
Paeth, Jewitt Steele, Jennifer McClain, Jaime    
McClain and Kelly McClain. He also leaves        
behind his beloved 11 grandchildren, a host of   
nieces and nephews, cousins, and the many        
extended family and friends that loved him;      
and                                              
     WHEREAS, Ruble loved and took great         
pride in his family and their achievements.      
He was the family historian and had a great      
knowledge about the Steele family all over the   
country. He became for many across the           
United States a central hub of information and   
knowledge about the Steele family history;       
and                                              
      WHEREAS, Ruble had an unwavering           
commitment and pride in his family. He was       
the family's protector and defender which fit    
his personality perfectly. Whenever there was    
a family member or friend in need, Ruble, like   
his days on the force, was the first on the      
scene and through the door. He offered           
strength, love and quiet consul. He will be      
truly missed                                     
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause to           
remember the many contributions of Ruble         
Hawkins Steele, Jr. to the citizens of the City  
of St. Louis and we join with his many friends   
in expressing our sorrow at his passing, and     
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to     
spread a copy of this Resolution across the      
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a    
memorial copy for presentation to the Steele     
family, at a time and place deemed appropriate   
by the Sponsor.                                  
Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008     
by:                                              
Honorable Samuel L. MooreAlderman 4th Ward       
Honorable Frank WilliamsonAlderman 26th Ward     
          Resolution No. 250                     
 Dixon-Muhammad Family Reunion                   
     WHEREAS, the family reunion was to          
recognize and honor their matriarch, Mrs.        
Adelene M. Dixon, who turned 82 on the Holy      
Day of Atonement October 16, 2008; and           
    WHEREAS, Muhammad Islamic                    
Academy and the Education Ministry of            
 Muhammad Mosque #28 pooled resources             
 to call all former and current students to join  
 in so that they might be recognized for their    
 accomplishments, renew friendships and           
 enjoy a delicious meal; and                      
      WHEREAS, they also witnessed                
 recognition of many from the community,          
 including Margaret Bush-Wilson, their            
 pioneering civil rights attorney and many        
 others.                                          
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to           
 recognize the Dixon-Muhammad Family              
 Reunion and we further direct the Clerk of       
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution   
 across the minutes of these proceedings and      
 to prepare a commemorative copy for              
 presentation to the honorees, at a time and      
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.         
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008     
 by:                                              
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward  
           Resolution No. 251                     
         Ibrahim A. Muhammad                      
      WHEREAS, Ibrahim A. Muhammad                
 was born in Chicago on November 27, 1943         
 to Chicago born, Adelene M. Dixon, and Saint     
 Louis born, Ibrahim A. Muhammad, and grew        
 up in Compton, California. He joined the         
 Nation of Islam in May of 1968 and graduated     
 from California State University in Los          
 Angeles in 1969; and                             
      WHEREAS, this 65-year old , 40-year         
 member of the Nation of Islam is the proud       
 father of 9 children, stepfather of 2 and        
 grandfather of 3. He came to St. Louis from      
 the East Coast to manage 10 Church's Chicken     
 Restaurants in 1985; and                         
      WHEREAS, he was inspired in 1995            
 by the Million Man March and the need for a      
 new paradigm in education for our children;      
 and                                              
      WHEREAS, following the examples of          
 the Most Honorable Elijah Muhammad and           
 the Honorable Louis Farrakhan and aided by       
 his wife Janiece Muhammad, he established        
 Muhammad Islamic Academy for boys in a           
 converted garage at 1908 Lucas Hunt in 1996.     
 From this humble beginning a mere 12 years       
 ago, hundreds of students have received a        
 quality education including the instilling of    
 the human spirit, as well as a comprehensive     
 course of knowledge of self, God and others      
 based upon the educational principles of the     
 Most Honorable Elijah Muhammad and His           
 Servant, the Honorable Louis Farrakhan; and      
      WHEREAS, part of the students'              
 education and training includes regular trash    
 and debris removal from the street, sidewalks   
 and alleyways in the historic Lindell Park      
 neighborhood, where Muhammad Islamic            
 Academy has been located since 2002; and        
       WHEREAS, this educational training        
 practice has benefited the students and the     
 community by beautifying our streets and        
 developing a sense of duty and self pride in    
 our young people. Muhammad Islamic              
 Academy is an affiliate institution in the      
 Muhammad University of Islam System with        
 headquarters located in Chicago at Mosque       
 Maryam, the National Center of the Nation       
 of Islam; and                                   
       WHEREAS, currently pre-school to          
 eighth grade is MIA's scope, with the           
 establishment of the high school and college    
 as future goals. The ultimate goal of Ibrahim   
 Muhammad is the infinite perpetuation of the    
 institution known as Muhammad Islamic           
 Academy.                                        
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to          
 recognize Ibrahim A. Muhammad and we            
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy for presentation to the      
 honoree, at a time and place deemed             
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                     
 Introduced on the 21st day of November, 2008    
 by:                                             
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward 
      Unanimous consent having been              
 obtained Resolutions No. 242 though 251         
 stood considered.                               
       President Reed moved that Resolutions     
 No. 242 though 251 be adopted, at this meeting  
 of the Board.                                   
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                   
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
           FIRST READING OF                      
             RESOLUTIONS                         
      None.                                      
         SECOND READING OF                       
            RESOLUTIONS                          
      None.                                      
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                        
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                      
      None.                                      
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                         
      None.                                      
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                        
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the            
following aldermen due to their necessary          
absence: Mr. Gregali and Ms. Baringer.             
     Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
             ADJOURNMENT                           
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under           
rules to return December 5, 2008.                  
     Seconded by Mr. Villa                         
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
     Respectfully submitted,                       
     David W. Sweeney                              
     Clerk, Board of Aldermen                      
  BOARD OF                                         
PUBLIC SERVICE                                     
          REGULAR MEETING                          
  St. Louis, MO - November 25, 2008                
     Board met at 1:45 P.M.                        
     Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,        
Siedhoff, Bryson and President Melton.             
    Absent: Directors Bess and Rice-               
Walker. (excused)                                  
     All actions pertaining to the Director of     
Parks, Recreation and Forestry and Health          
and Hospitals shall be the Special Order of        
the Day by the Board.                              
     Minutes of the Regular Meeting of             
November 18, 2008 were unanimously                 
approved.                                          
      Communications, reports, recommenda-         
tions and documents were submitted by Board        
Members and action thereon taken as follows:       
                PRESIDENT                          
     Preliminary approval ordered given and        
10 days granted in which to sign same:             
      Letting No. 8364 - Residential Sound         
Insulation Program Part XLVII, Lambert-St.         
Louis International Airport(R), Seals Enterprises  
Inc., 3275 Hawning Road, St. Charles, MO           
63301, Amount: $617,640.00                         
     Addendum No. 1 to the plans and               
specifications for Letting No. 8369 - New East     
Elevators and Stairs in Main Terminal Parking      
Garage Phase II - New Construction at              
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)         
approved and made part of the original plans.      
      Addendum No. 3 to the plans and              
specifications for Letting No. 8370 - Triple A     
Gold and Tennis Club Clubhouse Renovations,        
Forest Park approved and made part of the          
original plans.                                    
      Supplemental Agreement No. 3 to PSA        
 No. 1031 - Design of Widening of                
 Loughborough Avenue Bridge over Union           
 Pacific Railroad and Associated Road            
 Improvements between I-55 and                   
 Loughborough approved and President             
 authorized to execute same.                     
       Missouri Highway and Transportation       
 Commission Congestion Mitigation and Air        
 Quantity Agreement by and between the City      
 of St. Louis and the Missouri Highways and      
 Transportation Commission for West              
 Florissant Interconnect Project, CMAQ-          
 5595(612) approved and President authorized     
 to execute same.                                
       Missouri Highway and Transportation       
 Commission Congestion Mitigation and Air        
 Quantity Agreement by and between the City      
 of St. Louis and the Missouri Highways and      
 Transportation Commission for Vandeventer       
 Interconnect Project, CMAQ-5503(601)            
 approved and President authorized to execute    
 same.                                           
       Missouri Highway and Transportation       
 Commission Congestion Mitigation and Air        
 Quantity Agreement by and between the City      
 of St. Louis and the Missouri Highways and      
 Transportation Commission for The Lindell/      
 Olive Interconnect Project, CMAQ-               
 5526(634) approved and President authorized     
 to execute same.                                
 PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF                      
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                    
      Application No. 114678, Washington         
 University School of Medicine, public           
 improvements within the area of Euclid,         
 Clayton, Newstead and Forest Park Parkway       
 replacing existing street lighting, existing    
 substations to be reconfigured and new ones     
 added, includes an irrigation system and        
 installation of decorative pavers ordered       
 approved, subject to certain conditions.        
          PRESIDENT AND                          
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                       
      Application No. 114855, Trigen - St.       
 Louis Corporation, encroach with trailer        
 mounted package boiler at 1 Ashby Place         
 ordered approved, subject to certain            
 conditions.                                     
       DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                       
       UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
      2 permits for Quest Communications,        
 to place fiber optic cable by boring and/or     
 trenching ordered approved, subject to certain  
 conditions as follows: 114791, Bremen and       
 Broadway and, 114808, Broadway, Russell         
 and Locust.                                     
       3 permits for AT&T Missouri, to place     
 fiber optic cable by boring and/or trenching    
 ordered approved, subject to certain           
 conditions as follows: 114795, 4300 Iowa,      
 114805, No. Taylor and 4452 Maryland and,      
 114806, Manchester and Boyle.                  
 DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC UTILITES                   
      AND PUBLIC SAFETY                         
       2 permits ordered approved, subject to   
 certain conditions as follows: 114857, Pershing
 Avenue Subdivision No. 1, subdivide at         
 Pershing in C.B. 3873 and, 114856,             
 Washington University, boundary adjustment     
 at 4359 Duncan in C.B. 3904.                   
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Draft of the following ordinance          
 approved and Secretary instructed to forward   
 same to the Board of Aldermen with the         
 recommendation that it be passed:              
      "An ordinance to conditionally vacate     
 the 15 foot wide east/west alley and the       
 northern 95 feet of the 15 foot wide north/    
 south alley in City Block 5245 as bounded by   
 Gravois, Austria, Stolle and Germania."        
       2 permits ordered approved, subject to   
 certain conditions as follows: 114870, Benton  
 Park Neighborhood Association, encroach with   
 banners on street light poles in Benton Park   
 Neighborhood and, 114848, Downtown St.         
 Louis Community Improvement District,          
 install seasonal decorations on light poles    
 surrounding 6th and Washington and 9th and     
 Chestnut.                                      
    DIRECTORS OF STREETS,                       
   HEALTH AND HOSPITALS AND                     
       PUBLIC UTILITIES                         
      114784, Grand Center Inc., hold First     
 Night Celebration in the Grand Center Arts     
 and Entertainment District on December 31,     
 2008 ordered approved, subject to the certain  
 conditions.                                    
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                       
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      6 day care centers ordered approved as    
 follows: 114188, Wisdom Kids, 4328             
 College,114825, Mother's Love, 3946 No.        
 Kingshighway, 114787, General Services         
 Administration, 1222 Spruce, 114627, Circle    
 of Light Daycare, 8737 Annetta, 114798,        
 Nestle Purina Child Development Center,        
 1000 So. 9th and, 114831, Moore's Day Care,    
 3948 No. Kingshighway.                         
      Application No. 114354, Explorer's II     
 Daycare, conduct day care center 2815 Olive    
 ordered filed, project abandoned.              
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      7 Conditional Use Permits ordered         
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,  
 per Board Order No. 766: 114873, 3121          
Watson, interior and exterior alterations for   
restaurant/lounge (per plans),114874, 2740      
Arsenal, preschool, 114875, 6100 Enright,       
install communication antenna (per plans),      
114876, 6177 Delmar, interior alterations (per  
plans), 114877, 8122 No. Broadway, used         
furniture store, 114878, 4647 Carrie,           
tuckpointing/improvements (office use only),    
114879, 3414 Commonwealth, grooming dog         
(office use only).                              
     Agenda Items for November 25, 2008         
ordered approved.                               
    Board Adjourn to meet Tuesday,              
December 2, 2008.                               
                Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.        
                President                       
ATTEST:                                         
                Cherise D. Thomas               
                Secretary                       
           Office of the                        
      Board of Public Service                   
         City of St. Louis                      
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received         
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at    
the Office of the Board of Public Service,      
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.            
December 2, 2008 St. Louis, Missouri time,      
at which time they will be publicly opened      
and read, viz:                                  
JOB TITLE: NEW EAST ELEVATORS                   
AND STAIRS IN MAIN TERMINAL                     
PARKING GARAGE - PHASE II at                    
LAMBERT ST. LOUIS INTERNATIONAL                 
AIRPORT(R)                                      
LETTING NO. 8369                                
DEPOSIT: $37,835.50                             
      Plans, specifications and general         
information may be obtained in the Office of    
the Assistant Airport Director for              
Planning/Engineering, Room MT-1296,             
Airport Main Terminal, Lambert-St. Louis        
International Airport(R), from 8:30 AM to       
4:00 PM, Monday through Friday and upon         
payment of ONE HUNDRED dollars                  
($100.00) for each package. Purchased sets      
become the property of the prospective bidder   
and no refunds will be made. Information        
concerning this project may be obtained by      
telephoning (314) 426-8015.                     
      There will be a mandatory pre-bid         
meeting at 10:00 AM on November 10, 2008        
in the Planning and Engineering Conference      
Room.                                           
      Proposals must be made on blank forms     
to be furnished by the President of the Board   
of Public Service, and must be submitted to     
 Room 208, City Hall.                               
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations   
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications         
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to be basic items, the latter shall        
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer,        
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten percent (10%). Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work         
 and final acceptance by the City.                  
       "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies       
 all bidders that it will affirmatively insure      
 that in any contract entered into pursuant to      
 this advertisement, minority business              
 enterprises will be afforded full opportunity      
 to submit bids in response to this invitation      
 and will not be discriminated against on the       
 grounds of race, color or national origin in       
 consideration for an award."                       
       The contract shall provide that not less     
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
 of workmen needed in the actual construction       
 work on the site of the construction job herein    
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
 be paid to all workmen.                            
      All labor to be performed under this          
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
 Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the      
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.                
       The right of the Board of Public Service     
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
    By order of the Board of Public Service,        
 October 28, 2008.                                  
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Cherise D. Thomas               
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
      Sealed Proposals will be received for the   
 Public Work hereinafter mentioned at the         
 Office of the Board of Public Service, Room      
 208, City Hall, until 1:45 p.m., December 9,     
 2008, St. Louis, Missouri time, at which time    
 whey will be publicly opened and read, viz:      
 Job Title: Lambert-St. Louis International       
 Airport(R) Experience Program Construc-          
 tion of Airport Monuments                        
 Letting No: 8371                                 
 Deposit: $10,631.00                              
      The bid package will be available for       
 purchase from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday     
 through Friday commencing November 10,           
 2008, through DigiReprographics USA, Inc.,       
 9331 Natural Bridge Road, St. Louis, MO          
 63134 (Phone: 314-428-0124) at cost, plus        
 shipping, if required. Purchased sets become     
 the property of the prospective bidder and       
 no refunds will be made.                         
      A mandatory pre-bid conference will         
 be held at 9:00 a.m., November 19, 2008, at      
 the Fourth Floor Conference Room,                
 Airport Office Building, 11495 Navaid            
 Road, Bridgeton, Missouri 63044.                 
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208, City Hall.                             
       Each bidder shall specify in its proposal, 
 without interlineations, alternations or         
 erasures, in figures bid proposals for all items 
 on which lump sum figures are requested, and,    
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the   
 Total Bid Amount for which he will perform       
 all of the estimated work as requested by the    
 general requirements and covenants,              
 specifications and plans.                        
       In case of a discrepancy between the       
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that         
 obtained by the addition of each item, the latter
 shall prevail.                                   
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of St. Louis,          
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer or    
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller        
 of the City of St. Louis for the amount of       
Deposit required, as heretofore stated.           
      All work under this contract will be paid   
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the    
work completed, less a retained amount of         
5%. Final Payment, including all retained         
percentages, will be made within ten (10) days    
after completion of all work and final            
acceptance by the City.                           
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively    
insure that in any contract entered into,         
pursuant to this advertisement, that Minority     
Business Enterprises and Women Business           
Enterprises will be afforded full opportunity     
to submit proposals in response to this           
invitation and will not be discriminated against  
on the grounds of race, color or national origin  
in consideration for an award. The M/WBE          
goal for this project is 25%/5%. For              
more information, please log on to                
www.mwdbe.org.                                    
      The contract shall provide that not less    
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
City of St. Louis as determined by the            
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
of workmen needed in the actual construction      
work on the site of the construction job herein   
authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
be paid to all workmen.                           
     All labor to be performed under this         
contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
Revised Statues of Missouri, 1986.                
      The right of the Board of Public Service    
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
    By order of the Board of Public Service,      
November 4, 2008.                                 
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.         
                 President                        
ATTEST:                                           
                 Cherise D. Thomas                
                 Secretary                        
            Office of the                         
       Board of Public Service                    
          City of St. Louis                       
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received           
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by      
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market          
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,      
St. Louis, Missouri time on DECEMEBER             
09, 2008 at which time they will be publicly      
opened and read, viz:                             
JOB TITLE: SALISBURY STREET                       
STREETSCAPE ENHANCEMENTS                          
LETTING NO: 8372                                  
 DEPOSIT: $13,000.00                                
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
 President of the Board of Public Service,          
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs                
 may be viewed on BPS website:                      
 http://www.stlbps.org/contract.asp (BPS            
 Virtual Plan Room).                                
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 SEVENTY FIVE dollars ($75.00) for each             
 set.                                               
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
 be made.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The DBE   
 goal for this project is 14%.                   
       The Contract shall provide that not less  
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the 
 City of St. Louis as determined by the          
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations    
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type 
 of workmen needed in the actual construction    
 work on the site of the construction job herein 
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing   
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall  
 be paid to all workmen.                         
      All labor to be performed under this       
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of  
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the   
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                   
       The right of the Board of Public Service  
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
     By order of the Board of Public Service,    
 November 4, 2008.                               
                  Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.       
                  President                      
 ATTEST:                                         
                  Cherise D. Thomas              
                  Secretary                      
             Office of the                       
        Board of Public Service                  
           City of St. Louis                     
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received         
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by    
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market        
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,    
 St. Louis, Missouri time on January 06, 2009    
 at which time they will be publicly opened      
 and read, viz:                                  
 JOB TITLE: MUNICIPAL TERMINAL                   
 WAREHOUSE APRON REPAIR                          
 LETTING NO: 8373                                
 DEPOSIT: 18,600.00                              
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of       
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the   
 President of the Board of Public Service,       
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs             
 may be viewed on BPS website:                   
 http://www.stlbps.org/contract.asp (BPS         
 Virtual Plan Room).                             
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and       
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving         
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of      
 TWENTY FIVE dollars ($25.00) for each set.      
      Purchased sets become the property of      
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will      
 be made.                                        
       Proposals must be made on blank forms     
 to be furnished by the President of the Board   
of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
Room 208 City Hall.                                
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
show the products of the respective unit prices    
and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
Sum for which he will perform all of the           
estimated work, as requested by the general        
requirements and covenants, specifications,        
and plans.                                         
     In case of a discrepancy between the          
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
prevail.                                           
     Each bid must be accompanied by a             
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
for the amount of Deposit required, as             
heretofore stated.                                 
      All work under this contract will be paid    
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
all retained percentages, will be made within      
ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
final acceptance by the City.                      
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
insure that in any contract entered into           
pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
business enterprises will be afforded full         
opportunity to submit bids in response to          
this invitation and will not be discriminated      
against on the grounds of race, color or national  
origin in consideration for an award. The          
M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
      The Contract shall provide that not less     
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
City of St. Louis as determined by the             
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
of workmen needed in the actual construction       
work on the site of the construction job herein    
authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
be paid to all workmen.                            
     All labor to be performed under this          
contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
      The right of the Board of Public Service     
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.   
     By order of the Board of Public Service,   
 November 18, 2008.                             
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.       
                 President                      
 ATTEST:                                        
                 Cherise D. Thomas              
                 Secretary                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
      The Public Hearing has been cancelled     
 for December 9, 2008 at 1:45 in Room 208       
 City Hall for:                                 
      Hearing No. 8103 - Jeffrey Hood, to       
 appeal the decision of the Forestry            
 Commissioner regarding removal of a dead/      
 hazardous tree at 3911 McCausland.             
                 Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.       
                 President                      
 ATTEST:                                        
                 Cherise D. Thomas              
                 Secretary                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                        
    BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                     
      REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                
 for DESIGN SERVICES FOR UPGRADES               
 AT AMERICA'S CENTER, ST. LOUIS,                
 MO. Statements of Qualifications due by        
 5:00 PM CT, Thursday, December 11, 2008        
 at Board of Public Service, 1200 Market,       
 Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103.       
 RFQ may be obtained from website               
 www.stlbps.org, under Contracts & Bids,        
 Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at  
 314-589-6214.                                  
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
    DUE TO THE HOLIDAY,                         
 THERE WILL BE NO BOARD                         
 OF ADJUSTMENT HEARINGS                         
 ON NOVEMBER 26, 2008 AND                       
 DECEMBER 31, 2008.                             
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
      A public hearing will be held by the      
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on            
 Wednesday, December 10, 2008, in Room          
 208 City Hall to consider the following:       
       APPEAL #9210 - Appeal filed by           
 Greenlight Solutions, from the determination   
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of  
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant    
 to install one illuminated ground sign at 504  
 Bates. WARD 11 #AB441561-08 ZONE:                
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District           
       APPEAL #9211 - Appeal filed by             
 Greenlight Solutions, from the determination     
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to install one illuminated ground sign at 701    
 Russell. WARD 7 #AB441558-08 ZONE:               
 "G" - Local Commercial and Office                
 District                                         
       APPEAL #9212 - Appeal filed by             
 Greenlight Solutions, from the determination     
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to install two illuminated ground signs at 902   
 S. Broadway. WARD 7 #AB441559-08                 
 ZONE: "L"- Jefferson Memorial District           
       APPEAL #9213 - Appeal filed by             
 Greenlight Solutions, from the determination     
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to install one illuminated ground sign at 4403   
 Laclede. WARD 17 #AB441556-08 ZONE:              
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial                    
       APPEAL #9214 - Appeal filed by US          
 Neon Company, from the determination of          
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a     
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install one double sided projecting neon wall    
 sign at 1137 Washington. WARD 7                  
 #AB441818-08 ZONE: "I"- Central                  
 Business District                                
       APPEAL #9215 - Appeal filed by             
 Morganford Plaza LLC, from the                   
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to install one joint identification
 ground sign at 3192 Morganford. WARD 10          
 # AB440864-08 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-              
 hood Commercial District                         
       APPEAL #9216 - Appeal filed by             
 Signcrafters, from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install two wall signs at 701 Market Street.     
 WARD 7 #AB442976-08 ZONE: "I" -                  
 Central Business District                        
       APPEAL #9217 - Appeal filed Warren         
 Sign Company Inc., from the determination        
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to install 13 illuminated wall signs at 5720     
 Oakland. WARD 17 #AB436148-08                    
 ZONE: "G" - Local Commercial and                 
 Office District "J" - Industrial District        
      APPEAL #9218 - Appeal filed by Tom          
 Peterson, from the determination of the          
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
complete interior and exterior alterations at    
2705 Juniata. WARD 9 #AB443118-08                
ZONE: "B" - Two Family Dwelling                  
District                                         
      APPEAL #9219 - Appeal filed by             
YMCA Of Greater St. Louis, from the              
determination of the Building Commissioner       
in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
the Appellant to construct an addition to the    
existing building at 3150 Sublette. WARD 10      
#AB442138-08 ZONE: "A" - Single                  
Family Dwelling District                         
     In accordance with the provisions of        
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
    By authority of the Board of                 
Adjustment.                                      
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                     
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
     A public hearing will be held by the        
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
Wednesday, December 17, 2008, in Room            
208 City Hall to consider the following:         
     APPEAL #9220 - Appeal filed by Mark         
King, from the determination of the Building     
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy       
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a    
barber & beauty salon at 2278 S. Jefferson.      
WARD 7 #AO443529-08 ZONE: "C" -                  
Multiple Family Dwelling District                
     APPEAL #9221 - Appeal filed by The          
Map Room, from the determination of the          
Building Commissioner in the denial of an        
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a coffee and wine house at 1901       
Withnell. WARD 9#AO443022-08 ZONE:               
"C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District          
      APPEAL #9222 - Appeal filed by             
Alanson Building LP, from the determination      
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
a building permit authorizing the Appellant      
to erect four non- illuminated projecting signs  
at 5888-98 Delmar. WARD 26 #AB441182-            
08 ZONE: "G"- Local Commercial and               
Office District                                  
      APPEAL #9223 - Appeal filed by Bill        
Yount Signs, from the determination of the       
Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
install one ground sign and two illuminated      
wall signs at 2810 N. 9th Street. WARD 5         
#AB443799-08 ZONE: "K" - Unrestricted            
District                                         
     APPEAL #9224 - Appeal filed by Piros        
Signs Inc, from the determination of the         
Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install new sign cabinets on existing illuminated  
 ground sign at 35 S. Grand. WARD 17                
 #AB442509-08 ZONE: "H"- Area                       
 Commercial District                                
       APPEAL #9225 - Appeal filed by Piros         
 Signs Inc, from the determination of the           
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install new sign cabinets on existing illuminated  
 ground sign at 2105 Hampton. WARD 24               
 #AB442510-08 ZONE: "F"- Neighborhood               
 Commercial District                                
       APPEAL #9226 - Appeal filed by Piros         
 Signs Inc, from the determination of the           
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install new sign cabinets on existing illuminated  
 ground sign at 8200 S. Broadway. WARD 11           
 #AB442511-08 ZONE: "J"- Industrial                 
 District                                           
       APPEAL #9227 - Appeal filed by Piros         
 Signs Inc, from the determination of the           
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install new sign cabinets on existing illuminated  
 ground sign at 6211 Delmar. WARD 28                
 #AB442512-08 ZONE: "F"- Neighborhood               
 Commercial District                                
       APPEAL #9228 - Appeal filed by Piros         
 Signs Inc, from the determination of the           
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install one illuminated ground sign at 1514        
 Hampton. WARD 24 #AB442514-08                      
 ZONE: "H"- Area Commercial District                
       APPEAL #9229 - Appeal filed by Piros         
 Signs Inc, from the determination of the           
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a           
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to       
 install one illuminated ground sign at 2707        
 McCausland. WARD 24 #AB442516-08                   
 ZONE: "F"- Neighborhood Commercial                 
 District                                           
       APPEAL #8194 - Appeal filed by G &           
 HG Towing & Storage, from the determination        
 of the Board of Public Service in the denial of    
 an occupancy permit authorizing the                
 Appellant to operate an auto repair, towing        
 and salvage storage business with outside          
 storage at 400 E. Carrie. (Second Revocation       
 Hearing) WARD 2 #BPS107516 ZONE:                   
 "K" - Unrestricted District                        
      In accordance with the provisions of          
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.          
     By authority of the Board of                   
 Adjustment.                                        
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                       
  PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held  
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on        
 Thursday, December 4, 2008, on the           
 following conditional uses:                  
     1436 Dolman - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver-Real Estate/Property Management/      
 Home Office (Office Use Only) "A"-Single-    
 Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 7         
     1516 Gieseking - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver- Tuckpointing (Office Use Only) -     
 "A" - Single-Family Dwelling District. Te    
 Ward 2                                       
       915 Olive St. #712 - Home Occupancy    
 Waiver - Cleaning Services (Office Use Only) 
 - "I" Central Business District. Te Ward 7   
     5229 Terry - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Home Remodeling/Rehab (Office Use Only)    
 - "A" Single-Family Dwelling District. Sc    
 Ward 1                                       
      4242 W. Cote Brilliante - Home          
 Occupancy Waiver - Wholesale Clothing        
 (Office Use Only) - "C" Multiple-Family      
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 4                 
     5923 Park Lane - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Security Protection (Office Use     
 Only) "A" Single-Family Dwelling District.   
 Te Ward 27                                   
     823 Rutger - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Wedding Consultant (Office Use Only) -     
 "D" Multiple-Family Dwelling District. Te    
 Ward 7                                       
      4557 Laclede - #AO-443338-08 -          
 Administrative Office (Entire Building) "E"  
 Multiple-Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward   
 17                                           
      3525 Watson - #AO-442410-08 -           
 Clothing Resale Shop "F" Neighborhood        
 Commercial District. Pmg Ward 23             
     1012 Loughborough - #AB-443450-08        
 - Construct Bank Per Plans - "H" Local       
 Commercial District. Bl Ward 11              
     5607-09 Highland - #AB-443713-08 -       
 Construct a Parking Lot Per Plans "A" Single-
 Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 22        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held  
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on        
 Thursday, December 11, 2008, on the          
 following conditional uses:                  
     4122 Concordia - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver-General Home Remodeling (Office Use   
 Only) "A"- Single-Family Dwelling District.  
 Te Ward 13                                   
     4427 Alaska - Home Occupancy Waiver-        
Construction (Office Use Only) - "A" -           
Single-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 25      
     1300 Convention Plaza Unit 309 -            
Home Occupancy Waiver - Cleaning Service         
(Office Use Only) "I" Cental Business District.  
Te Ward 5                                        
     7036 Bruno - Home Occupancy Waiver          
- Personal Shopping for Chefs (Office Use        
Only) - "A" Single-Family Dwelling District.     
Te Ward 24                                       
     1045 Tamm - Home Occupancy Waiver           
- Tuckpointing & Plastering (Office Use Only     
"A" Single-Family Dwelling District. Te          
Ward 24                                          
     2743-53 Cherokee - #AO-444463-08            
- Full Drink Sitdown/Carryout Restaurant/        
Catering/Business Within Business "G" Local      
Commercial & Office District. Mv Ward 20         
     7320 Gravois - #AB-444710-08 -              
Construct Commercial Building (Pharmacy)         
Zoning Only - "G" Local Commercial & Office      
District. Bl Ward 12                             
         NOTICE OF                               
 OPEN MEETING                                    
November 18, 2008                                
12:00 pm                                         
Notice is hereby given that the Human            
Development Corporation of Metropolitan          
St. Louis will conduct a "Special Called"        
meeting at 12:00 noon, on Friday, December       
5, 2008, at 935 N. Vandeventer, St. Louis,       
MO.                                              
A tentative agenda of the meeting includes:      
I.   Roll Call of Members Present                
II. Review of Minutes:                           
 * August 22, 2008 Board Meeting                 
 * September 13, 2008 "Special Call" Meeting     
III. Correspondence                              
IV. Reports                                      
     1) Chairman's Report                        
     2) Budget and Audit Committee Report        
     3) President/CEO's Report                   
V. Old Business                                  
VI. New Business                                 
     Representatives of the news media may       
obtain copies of this notice by contacting:      
     Mrs. Ruth A. Smith                          
     929 North Spring Avenue                     
     St. Louis, MO 63108                         
     (314) 613-2200                              
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
  Board of Police Commissioners                   
  Metropolitan Police Department                  
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
    #250-000873 - Insurance policy for            
          computer equipment                      
       Sealed bids of the above will be received  
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
 Department, Office of the Director of            
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
 local time, Friday, December 12, 2008 when       
 they will be opened publicly and announced.      
       Official bid forms on which bids must      
 be submitted may be obtained from the Office     
 of the Director of Purchasing by prospective     
 bidders upon request in person or by             
 telephone during regular business hours.         
       Contractor shall not discriminate in       
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
 any employee or applicant for employment         
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
 contract, and the Board of Police                
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
 any damages resulting from termination.          
       The Board of Police Commissioners          
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also       
 reserves the right to consider criteria other    
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.     
 Among other factors, the Board will consider     
 the location of the business, minority interest  
 in the business, prior performance and the bid   
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
      CAROL SHEPARD                               
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                      
      (314) 444-5608                              
   REQUEST FOR                                    
    PROPOSAL                                      
  Board of Police Commissioners                   
  Metropolitan Police Department                  
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
              RFP - LOBBYIST                      
      Sealed bids of the above will be received   
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
 Department, Office of the Director of            
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
 local time, Friday, December 12, 2008, when      
 they will be opened publicly and announced.      
      Request for Proposal documents may          
 be obtained from the Office of the Director of   
 Purchasing by prospective bidders upon           
 request in person or by telephone during         
 regular business hours.                          
       Contractor shall not discriminate in       
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
 any employee or applicant for employment         
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
 contract, and the Board of Police                
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
 any damages resulting from termination.          
       The Board of Police Commissioners          
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also       
 reserves the right to consider criteria other    
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.     
 Among other factors, the Board will consider     
 the location of the business, minority interest  
 in the business, prior performance and the bid   
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.    
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and           
 associated Regulations could apply to the        
 service for which bids are being sought herein.  
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific    
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform    
 work pursuant to a contract executed between     
 the successful bidder and the City must be       
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage     
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term  
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,       
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.  
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage         
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration        
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration 
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with     
 the contract provisions related to the Living    
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of      
 the contract and the imposition of additional    
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and        
 Regulations.                                     
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,   
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at            
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.           
      CAROL SHEPARD                               
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                      
      (314) 444-5608                              
DEPARTMENT OF                                      
 PERSONNEL                                         
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                        
     The City of St. Louis, Department of          
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,           
announces competitive Civil Service                
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
Service.                                           
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examination is DECEMBER 5,           
2008.                                              
  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT I                       
               Prom. 1574                          
    (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                        
          EMPLOYEES ONLY)                          
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)           
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examinations is DECEMBER             
19, 2008.                                          
           EMS DISPATCHER                          
            Prom./O.C. 1575                        
$30,394 to $45,058 (Annual Salary Range)           
      INFORMATION SYSTEMS                          
          COORDINATOR                              
            Prom./O.C. 1576                        
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)           
      Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
Security, and Employee Retirement System           
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to    
salary.                                            
      Application forms and further                
information concerning duties of positions,        
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative   
weights of examination components, and             
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the   
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114        
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO              
63101. Applications can be submitted on the        
Internet. Visit the city web site at               
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with          
the City.                                          
                 Richard R. Frank ,                
                 Director                          
November 26, 2008                                  
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                              
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any              
individual or company who performs work            
within the City limits must obtain a Business      
License. This would also apply to businesses       
who employ sales or delivery personnel to          
come into the City. Contracts requiring work       
to be performed in the City will NOT be            
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.                 
 Please contact the License Collector,             
 Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,          
 63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may            
 also refer to our on-line site at                 
 www.stlouiscity.com.                              
 ST. LOUIS LIVING                                  
 WAGE ORDINANCE                                    
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                        
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that      
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597        
 and associated Regulations apply to the           
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
 contract executed between the successful          
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
 adjusted during the term of the contract          
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
 to submit this Declaration with the bid           
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
 [proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
 provisions related to the Living Wage             
 Ordinance may result in termination of the        
 contract and the imposition of additional         
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
 Regulations.                                      
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from La Queta          
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be      
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living           
 wage.                                             
    SUPPLY                                         
 COMMISSIONER                                      
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,                
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,               
 December 2, 2008 - ADVERTISED BIDS                
 will be received by the undersigned to be         
 opened at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for   
 the items listed below on the dates specified.    
         Notice to All Suppliers                   
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
 employment practices that are in accordance       
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis  
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated   
 there-under to the end that all Contractors   
 and suppliers of materials and services will  
 offer equal opportunity for employment and    
 job advancement to blacks and other minority  
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.    
            Requesting a Bid                   
       To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,   
 please contact the Supply Commissioner's      
 office at (314) 622-4580.                     
  NO ADVERTISED                                
  BIDS THIS WEEK                               
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis.missouri.org      
