       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2009-2010                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
      Friday, June 19, 2009.      
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers June 19, 2009.                     
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,   
 Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Triplett, Young,    
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,   
 Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, 
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd,       
 Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn, Williamson,      
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 28      
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
          HONORED GUESTS                     
      None.                                  
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                   
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for June 5, 2009.                   
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      None.                                  
          Office of the Mayor                
 City of St. Louis                           
 Room 200 City Hall                          
1200 Market Street                               
St. Louis, MO 63103                              
(314) 622-3201                                   
June 9, 2009                                     
Honorable Board of Aldermen                      
Room 230 City Hall                               
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                        
Dear Board Members:                              
     I have the honor to return to you           
herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,     
Board Bills No. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21,  
29, 30, 31, 32, 37, 38, 39, 44, 45, 56, 60, 65   
and 67.                                          
     Sincerely                                   
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                             
     Mayor                                       
City of St. Louis                                
Room 200 City Hall                               
1200 Market Street                               
St. Louis, MO 63103                              
(314) 622-3201                                   
June 15, 2009                                    
Honorable Board of Aldermen                      
Room 230 City Hall                               
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                        
Dear Board Members:                              
     I have the honor to return to you           
herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,     
Board Bills No. 57, 59, 69, 70, 71 (Committee    
Substitute) and 72 (Committee Substitute).       
     Sincerely                                   
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                             
     Mayor                                       
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                       
     None.                                       
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
   - INFORMAL CALENDAR                           
     None.                                       
         BOARD BILLS FOR                         
          THIRD READING                          
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
     None.                                       
           RESOLUTIONS                           
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
     None.                                       
           FIRST READING                         
           OF BOARD BILLS                        
Board Members Florida, Villa, Carter and         
Waterhouse introduced by request:                
           Board Bill No. 117                    
     WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen              
finds that there are a growing number of         
residential rental properties within the City,   
and that many of these properties are in a       
declining state of maintenance; and              
 Board Member Triplett introduced by              
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 118                    
       An Ordinance authorizing the execution     
 of a cooperation agreement between the City      
 of St. Louis and the Wellpoint Companies,        
 Inc.; prescribing the form and details of said   
 agreement; making certain findings with respect  
 thereto; authorizing other related actions in    
 connection with the Redevelopment Project;       
 and containing a severability clause.            
 Board Member Wessels introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 119                    
       An ordinance, recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 ratifying the actions of the Mayor of the City   
 of St. Louis, in submitting, on behalf of the    
 City, a Substantial Amendment to the 2008        
 Consolidated Plan to the United States           
 Department of Housing and Urban                  
 Development ("HUD") as required to apply         
 for funding under the Federal American           
 Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA")           
 Community Development Block Grant                
 Program ("CDBG-R"), authorizing and              
 directing the Mayor and the Comptroller on       
 behalf of the City to enter into and execute     
 agreements with HUD for the receipt of 2008      
 CDBG-R funds, appropriating the sum of           
 Five Million Three Hundred Thirty Three          
 Thousand Three Hundred Forty Eight Dollars       
 ($5,333,348) which additional amount the         
 City has been allocated for the 2008 Program     
 Year, authorizing and directing the Director of  
 the Community Development Administration         
 ("CDA") to contract with municipal agencies,     
 non-profit corporations and other entities, as   
 necessary for the expenditure of CDBG-R          
 funds, and directing the Comptroller to issue    
 warrants thereon upon the City Treasury; and     
 containing an emergency clause.                  
 Board Member Villa introduced by request:        
            Board Bill No. 120                    
      An Ordinance authorizing and directing      
 the Mayor and Comptroller to execute an          
 Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement          
 ("Intergovernmental Agreement"), attached        
 and incorporated by reference as "Exhibit 1,"    
 by and among the City of St. Louis, Missouri     
 ("City"), the County of St. Louis, Missouri      
 ("County"), and Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.     
 ("Pinnacle"), pursuant to which the City, as     
 recommended by the Board of Public Service,      
 grants an easement for maintenance to the        
 County for a portion of Weber Road and           
 Carondelet Boulevard; authorizes the use of      
 the County procedure for naming the access       
 road and renaming a portion of Weber Road        
 and Carondelet Boulevard "River City Casino      
 Boulevard;" containing a severability and        
 emergency clause.                             
 Board Member Villa introduced by request:     
           Board Bill No. 121                  
 An Ordinance authorizing and directing the    
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.  
 Louis to enter into and execute a lease option
 and lease, which is hereto attached and       
 substantially in the same form as Lease Option
 (Exhibit A) and Lease Agreement (Exhibit B),  
 of City-owned property located at 8400        
 Alabama and 8402 Alabama for a period of      
 the lesser of ninety-nine (99) years or upon  
 the expiration of Pinnacle's, or its assigns, 
 lease with St. Louis County Port Authority;   
 and containing a severability clause.         
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                    
        BOARD BILLS                            
         Convention and Tourism                
                  None.                        
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions          
                 None.                         
        Health and Human Services              
                  None.                        
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning           
       Board Bills No. 118 and 119.            
        Intergovernmental Affairs              
        Board Bills No. 120 and 121.           
                 Legislation                   
                   None.                       
        Neighborhood Development               
                  None.                        
    Parks and Environmental Matters            
                 None.                         
       Personnel and Administration            
                  None.                        
              Public Employees                 
                    None.                      
               Public Safety                   
             Board Bill No. 117.               
               Public Utilities                
                    None.                      
         Streets, Traffic and Refuse           
                    None.                      
      Transportation and Commerce              
                  None.                        
              Ways and Means                   
                     None.                     
      President Reed requested that Board Bill 
 No. 105 be moved from the Committee on        
 Public Safety to the Committee on             
 Neighborhood Development.                     
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                    
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                     
      Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways      
 and Means submitted the following report      
 which was read.                               
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
June 19, 2009.                                   
     To the President of the Board of            
Aldermen:                                        
     The Committee on Ways and Means to          
whom was referred the following Board Bills,     
report that they have considered the same and    
recommend adoption.                              
           Board Bill No. 106                    
      An Ordinance pertaining to the             
Transportation Sales Tax imposed pursuant        
to Senate Bill 432 as adopted and approved       
by the voters of St. Louis City on August 2,     
1994, pursuant to Ordinance 63168; creating      
the "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust         
Fund" directing the Treasurer of the City of     
St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant     
to said sales tax into the "City Public Transit  
Sales Tax Trust Fund" appropriating NINE         
MILLION, NINE HUNDRED SEVENTY-                   
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($9,975,000)               
from the said sales tax for the period herein    
stated to the Bi-State Development Agency        
for certain purposes; providing for the          
payment of such funds during the period July     
1, 2009 through, June 30, 2010; further          
providing that in no event shall the             
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer       
for an amount greater than the amounts of the    
proceeds deposited in the "City Public Transit   
Sales Tax Trust Fund" during the period of       
July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010; containing   
a severability clause.                           
           Board Bill No. 107                    
     An ordinance appropriating the sum of,      
of NINETEEN MILLION, TWO                         
HUNDRED TWENTY-SEVEN THOU-                       
SAND DOLLARS ($19,227,000) as described          
and defined in Section 94.600 through 94.655,    
R.S. Mo. Supp. 1986 as amended for the period    
herein stated, which sum is hereby               
appropriated out of the "Transportation          
Trust Fund" to the Bi-State Development          
Agency for transportation purposes; and          
further providing that the appropriation is      
conditional upon the Bi-State Development        
Agency supplying the Board of Estimate and       
Apportionment an annual evaluation report;       
further providing that in no event shall the     
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer       
for an amount greater than the amount of         
proceeds deposited in the "Transportation        
Trust Fund" during the period from July 1,       
2009 through June 30, 2010; providing for        
the appropriation to be reduced if certain       
funds are used for other than public transit     
purposes; further providing that the             
appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State       
requiring the payment of prevailing wages and    
benefits to employees of outside service         
contractors; and containing a severability       
 clause.                                          
            Board Bill No. 108                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Board of Estimate and            
 Apportionment authorizing The City of St.        
 Louis, Missouri, to enter into a Third           
 Amendment to Memorandum of Agreement             
 with the Bi-State Development Agency of the      
 Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District and      
 St. Louis County, Missouri, amending that        
 certain Memorandum of Agreement dated as         
 of November 1, 2002, as amended, for the         
 purpose of providing funds to refund certain     
 outstanding sales tax appropriation bonds        
 issued by said Agency; authorizing said          
 Agency to issue refunding obligations payable    
 from annual appropriation of the quarter-cent    
 sales tax levied by the City for public mass     
 transportation purposes by Ordinance No.         
 63168 and other available revenues of said       
 Agency; and authorizing the City to take other   
 necessary actions in connection with such        
 refunding obligations.                           
      Alderman Conway                             
      Chairman of the Committee                   
       Ms. Krewson of the Committee on            
 Convention and Tourism submitted the             
 following report which was read.                 
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
 June 19, 2009.                                   
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
       The Committee on Convention and            
 Tourism to whom was referred the following       
 Board Bills, report that they have considered    
 the same and recommend adoption.                 
            Board Bill No. 114                    
       An ordinance pertaining to sampling,       
 portable structures, and special event permits;  
 defining the terms "sampling" and "portable      
 structures", prohibiting any individual from     
 sampling within an special event zone as         
 designated by special event permit; prohibiting  
 any individual from erecting a portable          
 structure within a special event zone as         
 designated by special event permit without       
 prior approval of the Special Events Program     
 Executive; containing a sunset clause and an     
 emergency clause.                                
      Alderwoman Krewson                          
      Chairman of the Committee                   
      Mr. Roddy of the Committee on Parks         
 and Environmental Matters submitted the          
 following report which was read.                 
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
 June 19, 2009.                                   
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
      The Committee on Parks and                
 Environmental Matters to whom was referred     
 the following Board Bills, report that they    
 have considered the same and recommend         
 adoption.                                      
            Board Bill No. 111                  
      An ordinance authorizing and directing    
 execution of a Cooperation Agreement           
 between the City of St. Louis and the YMCA     
 of Greater St. Louis (the "YMCA" ), a          
 Missouri not-for-profit corporation , which    
 provides for the operation by the YMCA of      
 a City recreation facility in Carondelet Park. 
      Alderman Roddy                            
      Chairman of the Committee                 
            REPORT OF                           
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                      
      None.                                     
            PERFECTION                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                       
       Mr. Wessels moved that the following     
 Board Bills before the Board for perfection,   
 be perfected as reported out of Committee      
 with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board       
 Bills No. 94, 63, 92 (Committee Substitute),   
 95 and 41.                                     
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                     
       Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill No.     
 1 (Committee Substitute) before the Board      
 for perfection, be perfected as reported out of
 Committee with its recommendation "Do          
 Pass".                                         
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                  
      Carried by the following vote:            
     Ayes: Flowers, Triplett, Young,            
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,      
 Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy,    
 Schmid, French, Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn,     
 Krewson and President Reed. 20                 
     Noes: Troupe, Moore, Kennedy, Davis,       
 Boyd, Williamson, Carter. 7                    
      Present: 0                                
        Ms. Florida moved to suspend the rules  
 for the purpose of moving the following Board  
 Bills to the third reading calendar for final  
 passage: Board Bills No. 1 (Committee          
 Substitute), 63, 95, 41 and 94.                
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                  
      Carried by the following vote:            
      Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Triplett,   
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,        
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,  
Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,         
Boyd, Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn,               
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President      
Reed. 27                                       
     Noes: 0                                   
     Present: 0                                
          THIRD READING                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                       
      Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and  
final passage of Board Bills No. 64, 77, 1     
(Committee Substitute), 63, 95, 41and 94.      
     Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                  
     Carried by the following vote:            
     Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Triplett,   
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,        
Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,  
Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,         
Boyd, Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn,               
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President      
Reed. 27                                       
     Noes: 0                                   
     Present: 0                                
  THIRD READING, REPORT OF                     
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                      
     AND FINAL PASSAGE                         
       OF BOARD BILLS                          
      None.                                    
        REPORT OF THE                          
    ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                       
     Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,      
St. Louis, June 19, 2009.                      
     To the President of the Board of          
Aldermen:                                      
      The Committee on Engrossed and           
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the        
following Board Bills report that they have    
considered the same and they are truly         
enrolled.                                      
           Board Bill No. 64                   
     An Ordinance directing the Director of    
Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or    
otherwise impede the flow of traffic on        
Clemens Avenue at the east curb line of        
Hamilton Avenue and containing an emergency    
clause.                                        
           Board Bill No. 77                   
      An ordinance authorizing and directing   
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary  
actions to honorarily designate Burd Avenue    
as "Pastor Michael Jones Avenue."              
           Board Bill No. 63                   
     An ordinance authorizing and directing    
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.   
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in       
 consideration of the sum of Two Thousand          
 Dollars ($2,000.00) and other good and            
 valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to      
 remise, release and forever quit-claim unto       
 Union Electric Company, dba AmerenUE,             
 certain City-owned property located in City       
 Block 3879-S, which property is an irregular      
 parcel fronting an alley and containing 500       
 square feet, more or less, and containing an      
 emergency clause.                                 
             Board Bill No. 95                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
 Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
 consideration of the sum of Forty-Three           
 Thousand Six Hundred Fifty Dollars                
 ($43,650.00) and other good and valuable          
 consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to remise,       
 release and forever quit-claim unto               
 Cornerstone/St. Luke's, Inc., certain City-       
 owned property located in City Blocks 4547        
 and 4548, which property is known as 5632-        
 38 and 5637-49 Enright Avenue containing          
 52,860 square feet, more or less, and containing  
 an emergency clause.                              
             Board Bill No. 41                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
 of Public Service to vacate above surface,        
 surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,       
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in the 20 foot   
 wide east-west alley and the easternmost          
 355.66 feet of the 15 foot wide east-west alley   
 of City Block 1858 as bounded by Cass,            
 Webster, Evans and Francis in the City of St.     
 Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in     
 accordance with Charter authority, and in         
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of      
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions       
 on such vacation.                                 
           Board Bill No. 1                        
        (Committee Substitute)                     
      An ordinance making appropriation for        
 payment of Interest, Expenses and Principal       
 of the City's Bonded Indebtedness,                
 establishing City tax rates, and making           
 appropriation for current year expenses of        
 the City Government, Water Division, St.          
 Louis Airport Commission, Affordable              
 Housing Trust Fund, Health Care Trust Fund,       
 Use Tax Excess Trust Fund, Building               
 Demolition Fund, Assessor, Victim's Fund,         
 Communications Division, City Employee            
 Pension Trust Fund, Forest Park Fund, Child       
 Support Unit (Circuit Attorney's Office),         
 Circuit Attorney Training and Collection Fee      
 Funds, Port Administration, Peace Officer         
 Training Fund, Capital Improvement Projects       
 Fund, Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust        
 Fund, Metro Parks Sales Tax Fund,                 
 Centralized Mailroom Internal Service Fund,       
 Tourism Fund, Lateral Sewer Fund, Public          
 Safety Trust Fund, Public Safety Sales Tax        
 Trust Fund, Local Parks Fund, Neighborhood    
 Parks Fund, BJC/City Trust Fund.              
 Miscellaneous Special Funds, Trustee Lease    
 Fund, Riverfront Gaming Fund, Various Grant   
 Funds, Tax Increment District Special         
 Allocation Fund, City Convention and Sports   
 Facility Trust Fund and Employee Benefits     
 Fund (Department of Personnel); for the Fiscal
 Year beginning July 1, 2009 and ending June   
 30, 2010, amounting in the aggregate to the   
 sum of Nine Hundred Sixty Million, Eight      
 Hundred Forty One Thousand, Seven             
 Hundred         Seventy Eight Dollars         
 ($960,841,778) which sum is hereby            
 appropriated from Revenue and Special Funds   
 named for the purposes hereinafter            
 enumerated and containing an emergency        
 clause.                                       
            Board Bill No. 94                  
       An ordinance recommended by the         
 Parking Commission making appropriation for   
 payment of the operating expenses, capital    
 equipment and improvement expenses,           
 including lease purchase agreements involving 
 Parking Division assets, and debt service     
 expenses of the Parking Division of the       
 Treasurer's Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,  
 Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking     
 Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility,    
 Central Downtown Parking Facility, Cupples    
 Parking Facility and Justice Parking Facility 
 for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009 and
 ending June 30, 2010, amounting in the        
 aggregate to the sum of Thirteen Million, Five
 Hundred Eighty Six Thousand, Three Hundred    
 Fifty Six Dollars ($13,586,356) and containing
 an emergency clause.                          
      Alderman Ortmann                         
      Chairman of the Committee                
       Board Bills Numbered 1(Committee        
 Substitute), 63, 95, 41and 94 were read and   
 all other business being suspended, Mr. Reed, 
 in the presence of the Board and in open      
 session, affixed his signature in accordance  
 with the provisions of the Charter.           
     COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                      
       CONSENT CALENDAR                        
       President Reed introduced Resolutions   
 No. 68 - 72 and the Clerk was instructed to   
 read same.                                    
            Resolution No. 68                  
        Norbert Lee "K.O." Cody                
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised of        
 the 70th birthday of Mr. Norbert Lee "K.O."   
 Cody ; and                                    
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cody was born on            
 May 29, 1939. He was the eighth child of 23   
 children born to Hollivan and Helena Cody.    
 He grew up in the Jeff Vanderlou neighborhood;
 and                                           
     WHEREAS, Mr. Cody was a Golden              
Glove Fighter who accomplished a career as a     
Middleweight boxer with 14 wins, 4 losses        
and 2 ties. He was inducted into the St. Louis   
Gateway Classic Boxing Hall of Fame in 1996.     
Mr. Cody was nicknamed K.O. or "Knock            
Out" Cody from this success; and                 
     WHEREAS, Mr. Cody was the owner             
of K.O. Cody Snack Shop, which was a great       
support to the community; and                    
     WHEREAS, Mr. Cody has endorsed              
many mayors, aldermen and state                  
representatives in the St. Louis Community;      
and                                              
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cody has coached              
numerous football teams in and out of his        
community. He managed Gamble Center, a           
youth center for inner-city children. He is the  
pioneer of youth support throughout the City     
of St. Louis; and                                
      WHEREAS, Mr. Cody has been blessed         
to have ten children, 23 grandchildren and 16    
great-grandchildren.                             
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to congratulate Mr. Norbert Lee    
"K.O." Cody on the occasion of his 70th          
Birthday and we wish him continued peace,        
good health and happiness and we further         
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy  
of this Resolution across the minutes of these   
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
copy to the end that it may be presented to      
our honoree at a time and place deemed           
appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:     
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard  
           Resolution No. 69                     
      Detective Michael Venker                   
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
Detective Michael Venker DSN 0143 is retiring    
from the Saint Louis Metropolitan Police         
Department after 35 years of dedicated           
service; and                                     
      WHEREAS, throughout the term of his        
distinguished career, Detective Venker served    
as a Police Cadet starting in December 1973      
in the, Police Academy. After graduating from    
the Police Academy in July 1975, he was          
assigned to Mobile Reserve Unit until            
September 1975, then to District Two. In         
March 1990, he was transferred to the Second     
District Detective Bureau, later renamed the     
South Patrol Detective Bureau, until February    
2009 where he was reassigned to the First        
District Detective Bureau until his retirement;  
and                                              
       WHEREAS, for many years, Detective         
 Venker was assigned many parades and civic       
 events, and he protected many elected officials  
 including Heads of State while assigned to       
 details for the City of St. Louis. Detective     
 Venker also solved many of high profile cases    
 while assigned to various Detective Bureaus      
 matching his wit and guile amongst many of       
 the vile offenders who have committed crimes     
 in our fine city; and                            
       WHEREAS, Detective Venker is a 1972        
 graduate of CBC high School, where he starred    
 as an outstanding athlete in baseball, was a     
 member of the competition band, and later        
 continued his education at Meramec               
 Community College. Detective Venker is an        
 avid fisherman, golfer, bowler and dedicated     
 in his religious faith; and                      
      WHEREAS, Detective Venker, while            
 serving the St Louis Metropolitan Police         
 Department, was listed as having received        
 three Chiefs Letters of Commendation,            
 receiving the last one in 2003; and              
       WHEREAS, Detective Venker and his          
 wife Jeanette, daughters Trudy, Tracy, and       
 Tina and granddaughter, Kylie, can now rest      
 knowing their husband, father and grandfather    
 will no longer have to work long hours and       
 toil for the City of St Louis, and the citizens  
 can be proud that a fine Police Officer/         
 Detective has served them well for the last 35   
 years.                                           
      WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis              
 extends a sincere thanks to Detective Michael    
 Venker for his long and productive service to    
 the City of St. Louis and the St. Louis          
 Metropolitan Police Department.                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to thank and recognize Retired     
 Detective Michael Venker for his long and        
 productive service to the City of St. Louis      
 and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department. We express our best wishes to        
 him for good health and happiness on his         
 retirement and we further direct the Clerk of    
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution   
 across the minutes of these proceedings and      
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end       
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a     
 time and place deemed appropriate by the         
 Sponsor.                                         
 Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:     
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward        
 Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward       
 Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward        
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard   
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward     
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward 
            Resolution No. 70                    
    Police Officer Julie Reynolds,               
                  DSN 7591                       
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised that        
 Police Officer Julie Reynolds, DSN 7591 has     
 been honored as Officer of the Month in         
 District Eight, Area Three of the St. Louis     
 Metropolitan Police Department; and             
      WHEREAS, on May 4, 2009, Officer           
 Reynolds executed narcotics search warrants     
 at two residences, per complaint number 09-     
 026357. The search warrants resulted in the     
 arrests of three individuals, totaling nine     
 felony charges and four misdemeanor charges.    
 Subsequently, charges were later issued at the  
 Federal level by the US Attorney's Office;      
 and                                             
       WHEREAS, during her investigation,        
 Officer Reynolds seized a total of five         
 handguns; two were loaded semi-auto pistols     
 and three were revolvers. One of the weapons    
 had a defaced serial number. Also, a substantial
 quantity of illegal narcotics was seized,       
 including crack cocaine, heroin, ecstasy,       
 marijuana and various items of drug             
 paraphernalia. Over $7,000.00, believed to      
 be proceeds of illegal narcotics sales, was     
 seized; and                                     
      WHEREAS, Officer Reynolds is a fairly      
 new, young officer and this was her first search
 warrant execution and investigation; and        
      WHEREAS, during the month of May,          
 Officer Reynolds had a total of five arrests    
 and six assists for a total of fourteen charges 
 (ten felony charges and four misdemeanor        
 charges.) She also handled 146 radio            
 assignments; and                                
      WHEREAS, Officer Reynolds began the        
 Police Academy on June 11, 2007, and has        
 been assigned to the 8th District since         
 graduating on February 11, 2008.                
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize Police Officer Julie 
 Reynolds and we wish her continued success,     
 achievement and accomplishment and we           
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree at a time and       
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:    
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward     
           Resolution No. 71                     
             Luke Reven                          
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
Luke Reven will be stepping down as the          
Neighborhood Stabilization Officer of the 17th   
Ward; and                                        
      WHEREAS, Luke Reven has a Bachelor         
of Science in Public Administration and a        
Master's of Public Administration from           
Southwest Missouri State. He was moving          
and shaking with jobs at a Git `n Go             
Convenience and Bass Pro Shops before            
working as an intern with the City of Republic,  
Missouri and serving as a Graduate Assistant     
at Southwest Missouri State. He then looked      
to St. Louis for employment; and                 
      WHEREAS, Luke began work as an NSO         
November 2005, at a time when the                
Neighborhood Stabilization Team was              
undergoing reorganization and we were            
temporarily housed in Room 236 (actually a       
converted City Hall hallway). He did not have    
a table for himself, but shared one next to the  
NST manager. He turned out to be the perfect     
employee at the right time; and                  
      WHEREAS, aside from his problem            
solving skills and dedication to customer        
service, we quickly found out that he is a       
computer wiz, taking on the role of IT           
Coordinator for the NST, patiently assisting     
all office personnel with computer and           
technology issues, his reward for such being     
a feathered cap; and                             
     WHEREAS, his dedication was further         
displayed by his doing some community tasks      
himself, such as tastefully painting bollards    
to match a newly built curb cut and carrying a   
pen and paper while jogging to dutifully jot     
down any problems encountered along his          
route; and                                       
     WHEREAS, at this point in his career        
he is moving with his wife (and her new          
position) to Maryville Missouri, his new         
employer being fortunate, as we were, to have    
him work for and with us.                        
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberation to recognize the many               
achievements of Luke Reven and wish him          
luck in his future endeavors and we further      
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a       
commemorative copy to the end that it may        
be presented to our honoree at a time and        
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.         
Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:     
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward        
             Resolution No. 72                       
     Sergeant Thomas J. Eckhard                      
        WHEREAS, we have been apprised               
 that Sergeant Thomas J. Eckhard DSN 0235            
 is retiring from the Saint Louis Metropolitan       
 Police Department after 35 years of dedicated       
 service; and                                        
       WHEREAS, throughout the term of his           
 distinguished career, Sergeant Eckhard served       
 as a Police Cadet starting in June 1974 in the      
 Academy, the Fifth District, Medical Division       
 and Communications. After graduating from           
 the Police Academy in June of 1975, he was          
 assigned to the Mobile Reserve Section, the         
 First District, and the Third District. In March    
 of 1985, Patrolman Thomas Eckhard was               
 promoted to Sergeant Thomas Eckhard where           
 he then served in the Fifth and Fourth              
 Districts, the Inspection Unit, the Fifth           
 District and finally he is retiring from the First  
 District, where he served the last sixteen years    
 wearing badge #89.                                  
       WHEREAS, for many years, Sergeant             
 Eckhard was assigned to many parades and            
 civic events, and he protected many elected         
 officials, including Heads of State while           
 assigned to details for the City of St. Louis.      
 Sergeant Eckhard built relationships between        
 the Police Department and many important            
 St. Louis businesses; and                           
       WHEREAS, Sergeant Eckhard, is a 1972          
 graduate of Bishop Dubourg High School,             
 where he starred as an outstanding baseball         
 player. Following high school, he honed his         
 education skills at St Louis Community              
 College prior to joining the SLMPD. Sergeant        
 Eckhard is an avid fisherman having recently        
 garnered the coveted Joseph Capkovic Award          
 for excellence in fishing; and                      
      WHEREAS, Sergeant Eckhard, while               
 serving the St. Louis Metropolitan Police           
 Department, received two Chiefs Letters of          
 Commendation. In 2009, Sergeant Eckhard             
 was awarded with the first ever "District One       
 Leadership Award." In addition to normal            
 training, Sergeant Eckhard received a               
 Proficiency Level A for "Applicant Oral             
 Screening." Sergeant Thomas Eckhard while           
 dedicated to his profession, also was active as     
 a board member in two neighborhood                  
 associations, making the quality of life better     
 for both the Mt. Pleasant and Dutchtown             
 Neighborhood Associations.                          
       WHEREAS, Sergeant Eckhard and his             
 wife, Marion, and sons, Aaron, Adam and             
 Andrew can now rest knowing their husband           
 and father will no longer have to work long         
 hours and toil for the City of St Louis, and the    
 citizens can be proud that an outstanding           
 leader of men has served them well for the last     
 35 years; and                                       
      WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis            
 extends a sincere thanks to Sergeant Thomas    
 Eckhard for his long and productive service to 
 the City of St. Louis and the St. Louis        
 Metropolitan Police Department.                
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our     
 deliberations to thank and recognize Retired   
 Sergeant Thomas J. Eckhard for his long and    
 productive service to the City of St. Louis    
 and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police          
 Department. We express our best wishes to      
 him for good health and happiness on his       
 retirement and we further direct the Clerk of  
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution 
 across the minutes of these proceedings and    
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end     
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a   
 time and place deemed appropriate by the       
 Sponsor.                                       
 Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:   
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward      
 Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward     
 Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward      
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard 
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward   
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
 Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward        
      Unanimous consent having been             
 obtained Resolutions No. 68 - 72 stood         
 considered.                                    
      President Reed moved that Resolutions     
 No. 68 - 72 are adopted, at this meeting of the
 Board.                                         
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
           FIRST READING OF                     
             RESOLUTIONS                        
       Mr. Gregali moved to suspend the rules   
 for the purpose of placing Resolution No. 73   
 on the agenda.                                 
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                  
      Carried by the following vote:            
      Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Triplett,   
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,        
 Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,  
 Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,         
 Boyd, Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn,               
 Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President      
 Reed. 27                                       
      Noes: 0                                   
      Present: 0                                
      Mr. Gregali introduced Resolution No.     
 73 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.  
           Resolution No. 73                       
    WHEREAS, Article XVIII, Section 5 of           
the St. Louis City Charter created the             
Department of Personnel, and:                      
       WHEREAS, the purpose and                    
responsibility of the Department of Personnel      
is to help the rest of City government to create   
a qualified, professional workforce through        
effective and efficient recruitment, testing, and  
certification, and;                                
      WHEREAS, it should be the mission of         
the Department of Personnel to assist the          
various City department's to create a              
workforce that meets the needs of the              
departments, the demands of the City's             
customers but most importantly, the ability        
to provide efficient and effective City services,  
and;                                               
     WHEREAS, the Department of                    
Personnel should view other City                   
departments as customers and treat them that       
way, and;                                          
     WHEREAS, it is the job of the                 
Department of Personnel to see that the            
employees of the City remain productive, in        
a safe and happy environment in order to           
provide the necessary services to the citizens,    
and;                                               
      WHEREAS, it has come to the attention        
of this body that there is a high level of         
frustration with the Department of Personnel       
by employees, department heads and                 
employee representatives, and;                     
      WHEREAS, many City departments               
believe that the Department of Personnel truly     
makes it harder for them to deliver service in     
an efficient and effective manner.                 
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis that we direct the Public    
Employees Committee to convene for the             
purpose of investigating and examining the         
issues of the City as related to the Department    
of Personnel and its employees and we further      
direct the committee to include in the             
investigation and examination, discussion with     
all other parties deemed necessary and             
appropriate by the Public Employees                
Committee.                                         
Introduced on the 19th day of June, 2009 by:       
Honorable Stephen M. Gregali, 14th Ward            
     Mr. Gregali moved that Resolution No.         
73 be adopted by unanimous consent at this         
meeting of the Board.                              
     Seconded by Ms. Florida.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
        SECOND READINGS OF                      
           RESOLUTIONS                          
      None.                                     
       MISCELLANEOUS AND                        
       UNFINISHED BUSINESS                      
      None.                                     
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                        
      None.                                     
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                       
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the           
 following aldermen due to her necessary        
 absence: Ms. Ford-Griffin.                     
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
              ADJOURNMENT                       
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under       
 rules to return June 26, 2009.                 
      Seconded by Mr. Carter.                   
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Respectfully submitted,                   
      David W. Sweeney                          
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                  
   BOARD OF                                     
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
         REGULAR MEETING                        
      St. Louis, MO - June 23, 2009             
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                    
     Present: Directors Waelterman, Bess,       
 Bryson and President Bradley.                  
      Absent: Directors Skouby, Siedhoff and    
 Rice-Walker (excused).                         
       Requests of the Directors of Public      
 Utilities, Human Services and Health and       
 Hospitals to be excused from the Regular       
 Meeting of June 23, 2009 was read and leaves   
 of absence granted.                            
       All actions pertaining to the Directors  
 of Public Utilities and Health and Hospitals   
 shall be the Special Order of the Day by the   
 Board.                                         
      The Minutes of the Regular Meeting of     
 June 16, 2009 were unanimously approved.       
       Communications, reports, recommenda-     
 tions and documents were submitted by Board    
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:   
               PRESIDENT                        
      Five sealed proposals for the public      
 work advertised under Letting No. 8383-Fire    
 Alarm Upgrade and Replacement at America's     
 Center was received, publicly opened, read     
 and referred to the President.                
      Detailed plans and specs for the         
 following work approved and the Board set     
 the date of July 28, 2009 for opening bids for
 the work and Secretary instructed to insert   
 the proper advertisement therefore:           
      Letting No. 8386-Construction of         
 Roadway Wayfinding Signage, Lambert-St.       
 Louis International Airport(R) Experience     
 Program,                                      
      Contract and bond ordered approved as    
 follows:                                      
      Letting No. 8380-Residential Sound       
 Insulation Program Part L, Lambert-St. Louis  
 International Airport(R), SEALS Enterprises,  
 3275 Hawning Road, St. Charles, MO 63301,     
 Contract No. 19742                            
      Addendum No. 2 to the plans and specs    
 for Letting No. 8384-Fire Alarm Upgrade and   
 Replacement at America's Center approved      
 and made part of the original plans.          
       PSA No. 1083 with Cole and Associates,  
 Inc., for South Broadway Streetscape East     
 Courtois to Upton approved and President      
 authorized to execute same.                   
       PSA No. 1085 with George Butler         
 Associates, Inc., for Morganford Road Signal  
 Interconnect/Upgrade approved and President   
 authorized to execute same.                   
      PSA No. 1086 with Burns and              
 McDonnell for Grand Center/Grand              
 Boulevard Streetscape Enhancements Lindell    
 to Page approved and President authorized to  
 execute same.                                 
        PSA No. 1087 with Horner and Shifrin,  
 Inc., for Goodfellow and Skinker Overlay and  
 Pedestrian Improvement approved and           
 President authorized to execute same.         
      Loop Trolley Funding Agreement           
 between the East-West Gateway Council of      
 Governments and the City of St. Louis         
 approved and President authorized to execute  
 same.                                         
      The Board declared as an emergency       
 Improvements to Police Facilities, Roof       
 Replacement at St. Louis Police Mounted       
 Patrol Building in Forest Park.               
 PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF                    
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                  
      2 Permits for alley improvements         
 ordered approved, subject to certain          
 conditions as follows: 115505, Grace Hill     
 Settlement House, 2125 Bissell between        
 Strodtman and East Grand in C.B. 1820 and,    
 115494, Missouri CVS Pharmacy, LLC, area      
 surrounding Gravois and Germania in C.B.      
 5245.                                         
       DIRECTORS OF                             
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                    
      2 Permits for Union Electric d/b/a        
AmerenUE ordered approved, subject to           
certain conditions as follows: 115572, install  
800' of duct and 2 manholes on 7th and Biddle   
for removal of overheard. New underground       
to be installed at Cambridge Heights            
Development for 7th and Biddle and, 115577,     
install and excavate new customer conduit for   
Loftworks at 1001 Locust, 85' north of          
centerline of Locust at 10th Street.            
      2 Permits for AT&T Missouri, place        
fiber optic cable by boring and/or trenching    
ordered approved, subject to certain            
conditions as follows: 115541, 7256 Gravois     
and, 115542, 5003 Elenore.                      
     2 Permits for American Fiber Comm,         
place fiber optic cable by boring and/or        
trenching ordered approved, subject to certain  
conditions as follows: 115539, 1114 Market      
and, 115540, 311 No. Broadway.                  
       DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                      
    UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                 
      Application No. 115574, Robert and        
Beverly Jones and Robert and Jennifer Lorentz,  
boundary adjustment at 4952 and 4958 Reber      
Place in C.B. 4597 ordered approved, subject    
to certain conditions.                          
     2 Permits, consolidate land ordered        
approved, subject to certain conditions as      
follows: 115580, Lawrence H. Ayes,              
surrounding Polk, Steins, Union Pacific         
Railroad right-of-way in C.B. 3087 and 3088     
and, 115573, North Newstead Association,        
4101-43 and 4134-42 No. Newstead in C.B.        
4412E and 4424.                                 
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Draft of the following ordinance ordered  
approved, by this Board and Secretary           
instructed to forward same to the Board of      
Aldermen with the recommendation that it be     
passed:                                         
     "Conditionally vacate Mallinckrodt St.     
from 25th Street to Natural Bridge Ave."        
      2 Permits ordered approved, subject to    
certain conditions as follows: 115569, Macy's,  
encroach with sidewalk cafe at 601 Olive and,   
115575, St. Louis North Business Association,   
encroach with banners on Broadway between       
Calvary and Riverview.                          
      DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                       
    RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
    AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                    
      2 Permits for Lafayette Arts Council,     
hold events at the athletic fields adjacent to  
the Boathouse in Lafayette Park ordered         
approved, subject to certain conditions as      
follows: 115561, July 11, 2009 and, 115562,     
September 19, 2009.                             
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                          
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                       
      4 day care centers ordered approved as       
 follows: 115487, Christy Park Montessori,         
 5905 Loughborough, 115490, YWCA St. Louis         
 Head Start-Manchester Center, 5035                
 Manchester, 115486, Radiant Faith Academy,        
 5446 Ridge and, 115507, Tower Grove               
 Christian Preschool, 4257 Magnolia.               
      2 Nursing homes ordered approved as          
 follows: 115225, Malik Home LLC, d/b/a Page       
 Manor, 3636 Page and, 115466, Grand Manor         
 Nursing and Rehabilitation, 3645 Cook.            
      Application No. 115504, North City           
 Farmer's Market, operate Farmer's Market          
 at 2718-20 No. 14th Street from June through      
 October, 2009 and 2010 ordered approved,          
 subject to certain conditions.                    
       11 Conditional Use Permits ordered          
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,     
 per Board Order No. 766: 115582, 3033 No.         
 Euclid, school and activity center-kindergarten   
 through 5th grade, 155883, 5931 Floy, non         
 emergency transport business (home                
 occupancy waiver), 115584, 2933 Harper,           
 home health care business (home occupancy         
 waiver), 115585, 5108 Cologne, plastering         
 business (home occupancy waiver), 155586,         
 3854 St. Louis Avenue, home office and            
 contracting business (home occupancy              
 waiver), 115587, 8915H-19 Riverview, dance        
 studio-sharing space with a church (excludes      
 8917 Riverview), 115588, 8035 No.                 
 Broadway, daycare center, 115589, 5204            
 Wilson, sitdown, carryout, coffee shop, ice       
 cream parlor and sidewalk seating (rear           
 building) business, 115590, 2130 Macklind,        
 interior and exterior alterations for a sitdown,  
 carryout and delivery restaurant with outdoor     
 seating, 115591, 5901 Southwest, full drink       
 restaurant and bar and, 115592, 1400-04,          
 1406-10 and 1412 No. Taylor, construct            
 parking lot (per plans).                          
       Conditional Use Permit Number               
 115559, 33 Wine Shop and Tasting Bard,            
 ordered approved to exclude condition number      
 four from Public Safety conditions.               
      Agenda Items for June 23, 2009 ordered       
 approved.                                         
      Board adjourned to meet Tuesday, June        
 30, 2009.                                         
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
             Office of the                       
        Board of Public Service                  
           City of St. Louis                     
       Sealed Proposals will be received for the 
 Public Work hereinafter mentioned at the        
 Office of the Board of Public Service, Room     
 208, City Hall, until 1:45 p.m., July 28, 2009, 
 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which time they    
 will be publicly opened and read, viz:          
 LETTING NO. 8386                                
 JOB TITLE: LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                    
 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R) EXPERI-                
 ENCE PROGRAM CONSTRUCTION OF                    
 ROADWAY WAYFINDING SIGNANGE                     
 DEPOSIT: $26,450.00                             
      The bid package will be available for      
 purchase from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday    
 through Friday commencing June 29, 2009,        
 through DigiReprographics USA, Inc., 9331       
 Natural Bridge Road, St. Louis, MO 63134        
 (Phone: 314-428-0124) at cost, plus shipping,   
 if required. Purchased sets become the          
 property of the prospective bidder and no       
 refunds will be made.                           
      A mandatory pre-bid conference will        
 be held at 10:00 a.m., July 7, 2009, in the     
 Community Training Room, Fourth Floor,          
 Airport Office Building, 11495 Navaid Road      
 (Old Natural Bridge Road), Bridgeton,           
 Missouri 63044.                                 
       Proposals must be made on blank forms     
 to be furnished by the President of the Board   
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to     
 Room 208, City Hall.                            
       Each bidder shall specify in its proposal,
 without interlineations, alternations or        
 erasures, in figures a unit or lump sum price,  
 whichever the case may be, for each of the      
 separate items called for in the proposal, and, 
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid, the 
 Total Bid Amount for which he will perform      
 all of the estimated work as requested by the   
 general requirements and covenants,             
 specifications and plans.                       
       When an error appears on the extension,   
 the unit price will govern. Bids will be audited
 for correctness. Quantities will be multiplied  
 by unit prices. All extension of the items will 
 be summed and the total sum will constitute     
 the bid. The audited numbers will take          
 precedence over the submitted numbers and       
 will constitute the contractor's bid.           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a          
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or     
 Trust Company in the City of St. Louis,         
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer or   
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller       
of the City of St. Louis for the amount of        
Deposit required, as heretofore stated.           
      All work under this contract will be paid   
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the    
work completed, less a retained amount of         
10%. Final Payment, including all retained        
percentages, will be made within ten (10) days    
after completion of all work and final            
acceptance by the City.                           
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively    
insure that in any contract entered into,         
pursuant to this advertisement, that Minority     
Business Enterprises and Women Business           
Enterprises will be afforded full opportunity     
to submit proposals in response to this           
invitation and will not be discriminated against  
on the grounds of race, color or national origin  
in consideration for an award. The M/WBE          
goal for this project is 25%/5%. For more         
information, please log on to                     
www.mwdbe.org.                                    
      The contract shall provide that not less    
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
City of St. Louis as determined by the            
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
of workmen needed in the actual construction      
work on the site of the construction job herein   
authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
be paid to all workmen.                           
     All labor to be performed under this         
contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
Revised Statues of Missouri, 1986.                
      The right of the Board of Public Service    
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
    By order of the Board of Public Service,      
June 23, 2009.                                    
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                 President                        
ATTEST:                                           
                 Cherise D. Thomas                
                 Secretary                        
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
The Board of Public Service will hold a public    
hearing on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 in Room         
208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider the       
following:                                        
      Hearing No. 8112 - Annie Malone             
Children and Family Service Center, to operate    
a transitional living program at 4221-4221A       
and 4223-4223A Kennerly.                          
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                 President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
       The Board of Public Service will hold a     
 public hearing on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 in       
 Room 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider      
 the following:                                    
      Hearing No. 8113 - Self Inflicted            
 Studios, to operate a tattoo parlor at 1428       
 Washington.                                       
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
       A public hearing will be held by the        
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
 Wednesday, July 8, 2009 in Room 208 City          
 Hall to consider the following:                   
      APPEAL #9345 - Appeal filed by Warren        
 Sign Co, from the determination of the Building   
 Commissioner in the denial of a building          
 permit authorizing the Appellant to install one   
 illuminated ground sign per plans at 2105         
 McCausland. WARD 24 #AB457459-09                  
 ZONE: "A"- Single Family Dwelling                 
 District                                          
      APPEAL #9346 - Appeal filed by Nyco          
 Properties LLC, from the determination of         
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to      
 complete interior and exterior alterations for    
 an office on the (1st floor) and a single family  
 dwelling unit on the 2nd floor at 4000 Shaw.      
 WARD 8 #AB457418-09 ZONE: "C"-                    
 Multiple Family Dwelling District                 
       APPEAL #9265 - Appeal filed by South        
 Gravois Detailing Window Tinting, from the        
 determination of the Building Commissioner        
 in the revocation of a use variance and           
 occupancy permit, with conditions,                
 authorizing the Appellant to operate a            
 detailing and window tinting shop at 3210 S.      
 Compton. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 20             
 #AO444978-09 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-                
 hood Commercial District                          
       APPEAL #8249 - Appeal filed by The          
 Inspection Station, from the determination of     
 the Building Commissioner in the revocation       
 of a use variance and occupancy permit, with      
 conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
 operate an auto inspection station at 3655        
 California. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 20        
 #AO293624-03 ZONE: "B" - Two Family             
 Dwelling District                               
      In accordance with the provisions of       
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.       
     By authority of the Board of                
 Adjustment.                                     
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                    
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
       A public hearing will be held by the      
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on             
 Wednesday, July 15, 2009 in Room 208 City       
 Hall to consider the following:                 
       APPEAL #9347 - Appeal filed by Art        
 Saint Louis, from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a        
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to    
 erect two non-illuminated projecting signs per  
 plans at 555 Washington. WARD 7                 
 #AB457438-09 ZONE: "I"- Central                 
 Business District                               
      APPEAL #9348 - Appeal filed by Warren      
 Sign, from the determination of the Building    
 Commissioner in the denial of a building        
 permit authorizing the Appellant to install     
 three marquee illuminated signs per plans at    
 4550 Forest Park Ave. WARD 17                   
 #AB457458-09 ZONE: "H"- Area                    
 Commercial District                             
       APPEAL #9349 - Appeal filed by Crown      
 Food Mart, from the determination of the        
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a        
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to    
 install one ground sign and six illuminated wall
 signs per plans at 1505 N. 13 th. WARD 5        
 #AB458641-09 ZONE: "J"- Industrial              
 District                                        
      APPEAL #9250 - Appeal filed by             
 American Legion Post 300, from the              
 determination of the Building Commissioner      
 in the denial of an occupancy permit            
 authorizing the A ppellant to operate a private 
 club and office (no liquor) on the 1st floor at 
 6225-27 Gravois. WARD 13 #AO456131-             
 09 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood                     
 Commercial District                             
      APPEAL #9251 - Appeal filed by             
 Pizzeria Tivoli Inc, from the determination of  
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an   
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to operate a sit down, carry-out, and full drink
 restaurant at 5861 S. Kingshighway. WARD        
 13 #AO458026-09 ZONE: "A" - Single              
 Family Dwelling District                        
     APPEAL #9307 - Appeal filed by Shop         
 N Save Fuel Express, from t he determination    
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of   
a building permit authorizing the Appellant     
to construct a gas station per plans at 4646    
Chippewa. (Continuance) WARD 14                 
#AB451603-09 ZONE: "F"- Neighborhood            
Commercial District                             
     In accordance with the provisions of       
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.       
    By authority of the Board of                
Adjustment.                                     
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                    
 PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                    
  A Conditional Use Hearing will be held        
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on           
Thursday, July 9, 2009, on the following        
conditional uses:                               
     7117 Minnesota - Home Occupancy            
Waiver - Open Sesame St. Louis, LLC (Garage     
Door Installation) "B" Two-Family Dwelling      
District. Mv Ward 11                            
    4133 Page - Home Occupancy Waiver -         
Progressive Building/Maintenance LLC            
(Home Repair) "C" Multiple-Family               
Dwelling District. Te Ward 19                   
    4566 Shenandoah - Home Occupancy            
Waiver - Richard Codd Properties, LLC           
(Property Management) "C" Multiple-             
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 8             
     1129 Penrose - Home Occupancy              
Waiver- New Generation Childcare (Home          
Day Care/10 Children Total/6Days Per Week,      
7am-12am) "F" Neighborhood Commercial           
District. Mv Ward 3                             
     5107 Ridge - Home Occupancy Waiver-        
The Foundations G., Inc. (Rehab &               
Remodeling) "B" Two-Family Dwelling             
District. Te Ward 26                            
     3956 Tholozan - Home Occupancy             
Waiver - A Walk in the Park (Grooming) "A"      
Single-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 15     
     4738 Vernon - Home Occupancy Waiver        
- Wright Now Lawn Care Service (Lawn Care       
Services) "C" Multiple-Family Dwelling          
District. Te Ward 18                            
      5074 Union Blvd - #AO - 455226-09 -       
Daycare 16 Kids Total (4 Infants and 12 2 1/    
2 - 12 Years of Age) 6 a.m. - Midnight/ Sunday  
- Saturday "F" Neighborhood Commercial          
District. Pmg Ward 1                            
     2917 N. Sarah - #AO-457714-09 -            
Mini Market w/ Carryout Restaurant (No          
Liquor) "F" Neighborhood Commercial             
District. Pmg Ward 4                            
     8915H-19 Riverview Drive - #AO -           
 459018-09 - Instructional Classes &             
 Community Services (Multi Purpose Rooms)        
 "F" Neighborhood Commercial District. Te        
 Ward 2                                          
      609 Lafayette - #AB - 458202-09 -          
 Interior & Exterior Alterations Per Plans       
 (Sitdown/Carryout Restaurant w/Drive-           
 Through Window)"G" Local Commercial and         
 Office District. Bl Ward 7                      
      4315-21 Margaretta - #AB - 444006-         
 08 - Expanding Parking Lot Per Plans " B "      
 Two-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 21        
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held     
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on           
 Thursday, July 16, 2009, on the following       
 conditional uses:                               
     4628 Morganford - #AO-458406-09 -           
 Full Drink Bar & Coffee Shop "F"                
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Mv            
 Ward 14                                         
     8734 Goodfellow - #AO-459035-09 -           
 Kitchen within Existing Bar "F"                 
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg           
 Ward 27                                         
     3221 Meramec - #AO-458871-09 -              
 Bakery & Cafe "F" Neighborhood                  
 Commercial District. Pmg Ward 25                
      4144 Manchester - #AO-458874-09 -          
 Full Drink Bar, Restaurant & Nightclub          
 (Expansion of Existing Business) "G" Local      
 Commercial & Office District. Pmg Ward 17       
      8229-31 N. Broadway - #AO-458890-          
 09 - Daycare 50 Children Total (24 Infants,     
 26 2 1/2 - 13 Years of Age) Monday-Friday       
 6am-9 pm (Lower Level) "G" Local                
 Commercial & Office District. Pmg Ward 2        
      2325-27 N. Kingshighway - #AB-             
 459031-09 - Construct Commercial Building       
 Per Plans (Office & Adult Day Care) "F"         
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Bl Ward       
 18                                              
 INVITATION TO BID                               
  Board of Police Commissioners                  
  Metropolitan Police Department                 
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
             160-001406 -                        
    Commissioned service bars & pins             
       160-001450 - Nylon duty gear              
      Sealed bids of the above will be received  
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police            
 Department, Office of the Director of           
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
 local time, Friday, July 10, 2009 when they      
 will be opened publicly and announced.           
 Official bid forms on which bids must be         
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of     
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective        
 bidders upon request in person or by             
 telephone during regular business hours.         
       Contractor shall not discriminate in       
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
 any employee or applicant for employment         
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
 contract, and the Board of Police                
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
 any damages resulting from termination.          
       The Board of Police Commissioners          
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also       
 reserves the right to consider criteria other    
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.     
 Among other factors, the Board will consider     
 the location of the business, minority interest  
 in the business, prior performance and the bid   
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.    
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and           
 associated Regulations could apply to the        
 service for which bids are being sought herein.  
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific    
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform    
 work pursuant to a contract executed between     
 the successful bidder and the City must be       
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage     
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term  
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,       
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.  
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage         
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration        
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration 
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with     
 the contract provisions related to the Living    
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of      
 the contract and the imposition of additional    
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and        
 Regulations.                                     
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
 are available upon request from Brad Turner,     
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at            
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.           
      Bidders are also advised that the State     
 of Missouri requires workers on all public       
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.      
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the     
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or      
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than   
the prevailing rate for any work done under       
the contract by the contractor or by any          
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).           
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid     
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.     
Email must include vendor's company name,         
address, and description of bid.                  
     Brad Turner                                  
     Purchasing Agent                             
     PHONE# 314-444-5608                          
    CITY OF ST. LOUIS                             
   LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                              
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                          
   Solicitation For Bids for                      
     EMERGENCY GENERATOR                          
     MAINTENANCE SERVICES                         
       SEALED BIDS WANTED                         
     Sealed Bids will be received at Lambert      
St. Louis International Airport(R), Airport       
Properties Division, 10701 Lambert                
International Drive, MTN 2501, St. Louis,         
Missouri 63145 until 2:00 p.m., July 29,          
2009, at which time the bids will be publicly     
opened and read.                                  
      Bidding documents may be obtained at        
Lambert St. Louis International Airport(R),       
Airport Properties Division, 10701                
Lambert International Drive, MTN 2501,            
St. Louis, Missouri 63145, Monday through         
Friday between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and         
5:00 p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8031. This     
Solicitation For Bids may be obtained by          
visiting our website at www.flystl.com (Click     
on "Business").                                   
       "LIVING WAGE: This solicitation is         
subject to the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance    
65597 and the Regulations associated              
therewith. Respondents are hereby advised         
that this solicitation is subject to the City of  
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597.           
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations           
are available online at www.mwdbe.org/            
livingwage.                                       
     Robert Salarano                              
     Airport Properties Division Manager          
DEPARTMENT OF ST. LOUIS LIVING                    
 PERSONNEL    WAGE ORDINANCE                      
               LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS           
    NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                        
     The City of St. Louis, Department of         
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,          
announces competitive Civil Service               
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
 Service.                                           
       The last date for filing an application for  
 the following examination is JULY 10, 2009,        
     TRANSPORTATION CENTER                          
      OPERATIONS SPECIALIST                         
             Prom./O.C. 1624                        
 $30,394 to $45,058 (Annual Salary Range)           
       The last date for filing an application for  
 the following examination is JULY 24, 2009,        
             CLERK TYPIST II                        
             Prom./O.C. 1623                        
 $25,714 to $38,038 (Annual Salary Range)           
       Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
 Security, and Employee Retirement System           
 Benefits privileges are provided in addition to    
 salary.                                            
       Application forms and further                
 information concerning duties of positions,        
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative   
 weights of examination components, and             
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the   
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114        
 Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO              
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the        
 Internet. Visit the city web site at               
 www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with          
 the City.                                          
                  Richard R. Frank ,                
                  Director                          
 June 24, 2009                                      
 NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                              
      CITY ORDINANCE requires that any              
 individual or company who performs work            
 within the City limits must obtain a Business      
 License. This would also apply to businesses       
 who employ sales or delivery personnel to          
 come into the City. Contracts requiring work       
 to be performed in the City will NOT be            
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.                  
 Please contact the License Collector,              
 Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,           
 63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may             
 also refer to our on-line site at                  
 www.stlouiscity.com.                               
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that       
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597         
 and associated Regulations apply to the            
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial       
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are    
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires    
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all     
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a      
 contract executed between the successful        
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]      
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable        
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached     
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are     
 adjusted during the term of the contract        
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates     
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder      
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living    
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance              
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure   
 to submit this Declaration with the bid         
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid  
 [proposal]. A successful bidder 's              
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract   
 provisions related to the Living Wage           
 Ordinance may result in termination of the      
 contract and the imposition of additional       
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and     
 Regulations.                                    
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
 are available upon request from La Queta        
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be    
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living         
 wage.                                           
    SUPPLY                                       
 COMMISSIONER                                    
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,              
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,        
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,             
 June 30, 2009 - ADVERTISED BIDS will            
 be received by the undersigned to be opened     
 at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the    
 items listed below on the dates specified.      
  NO ADVERTISED                                  
  BIDS THIS WEEK                                 
         Notice to All Suppliers                 
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
 employment practices that are in accordance     
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
 there-under to the end that all Contractors     
 and suppliers of materials and services will    
 offer equal opportunity for employment and      
 job advancement to blacks and other minority    
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
             Requesting a Bid                    
      To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,      
please contact the Supply Commissioner's      
office at (314) 622-4580.                     
      Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
30 days following the date of bid opening.    
If you desire bid results, please include a   
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
     The City of St. Louis desires to         
purchase recycled products whenever           
possible, especially items containing post    
consumer waste materials. If your company     
can supply recycled products, please provide  
information to this office.                   
           Surplus Property                   
     Notice is hereby given that the City of  
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale  
during the course of the year. The property   
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the   
City Journal.                                 
     The right to reject any and all bids is  
reserved.                                     
                Freddie L. Dunlap             
                Supply Commissioner           
                (314) 622-4580                
                www.stlouis.missouri.org      
