       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2009-2010                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
      Friday, June 12, 2009.      
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen      
 Chambers June 12, 2009.                      
      The roll was called and the following   
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,    
 Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin, Young, Conway,  
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels,   
 Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,  
 Davis, Schmid, Boyd, Vaccaro, Waterhouse,    
 Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President    
 Reed. 25                                     
      "Almighty God, source of all authority, 
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations  
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."        
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                       
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                   
      None.                                   
          INTRODUCTION OF                     
          HONORED GUESTS                      
      None.                                   
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                    
     Mr. Roddy moved to approve the           
 minutes for May 29, 2009.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                  
         Report of the Clerk                  
     of the Board of Aldermen                 
      To the President of the Board of        
 Aldermen:                                    
      I wish to report that on the 12th day of
 June, 2009, I delivered to the Office of the 
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following       
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally  
adopted.                                           
            Board Bill No. 57                      
      An Ordinance recommended by the              
Board of Estimate and Apportionment                
amending Ordinance No. 55390, approved             
August 16, 1969, as amended by Ordinance           
No. 55522, approved February 18, 1970, as          
amended by Ordinance No. 56178, approved           
June 21, 1972, as amended by Ordinance No.         
56912, approved March 6, 1975, as amended          
by Ordinance No. 62515, approved February          
21, 1992, as amended by Ordinance No.              
65669, approved October 24, 2002, and as           
amended by Ordinance No. 66772, approved           
July 18, 2005, pertaining to the Entertainment     
License Tax As Codified in Chapter 8.08 of         
the Revised Code of the City of St. Louis (the     
"Code") by adding a new paragraph to Section       
One of said Ordinance No. 55390, as amended,       
creating a new subclass of taxpayers and fixing    
a tax rate for such subclass of taxpayers; and     
containing a severability clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 59                      
       An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated April 21, 2009        
for the 1400 Market St. Redevelopment Area         
(as further defined herein, the "Plan") after      
finding that said Redevelopment Area ("Area")      
is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the    
Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the      
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715          
RSMo, inclusive, as amended); containing a         
description of the boundaries of the Area in       
The City of St. Louis, Missouri ("City"),          
attached hereto and incorporated herein as         
Attachment "A," finding that redevelopment         
and rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest  
of the public health, safety, morals and general   
welfare of the people of the City; approving       
the Plan attached hereto and incorporated          
herein as Attachment "B," pursuant to Section      
99.430 RSMo, as amended; finding that there        
is a feasible financial plan for the development   
of the Area which affords maximum                  
opportunity for development of the Area by         
private enterprise; finding that no property       
in the Area may be acquired by the Land            
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the       
City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body          
corporate and politic created under Missouri       
law, through the exercise of eminent domain;       
finding that none of the property within the       
Area is occupied, but if it should become          
occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined            
herein) shall be responsible at its sole costs     
for relocating any eligible occupants displaced    
as a result of implementation of the Plan;         
finding that financial aid may be necessary to     
enable the Area to be redeveloped in               
accordance with the Plan; finding that             
 Redeveloper may seek real estate tax              
 abatement pursuant to Sections 99.700 to          
 99.715 RSMo, upon application as provided         
 therein, or alternatively up to a twenty-five     
 year real estate tax abatement provided that      
 Redeveloper fully complies with all separate      
 approvals and conditions under Chapter 11.06      
 of the City Code and Chapter 353 RSMo;            
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
 various officials, departments, boards and        
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
 exercise their respective powers in a manner      
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
 severability clause.                              
             Board Bill No. 69                     
       An ordinance recommended by the Board       
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing         
 the City to execute a certificate stating that    
 the City is not in default under Lease Financing  
 Agreement; providing legal description of the     
 property on which the Kiel Opera House is         
 located ("Opera House Property") to be            
 released from the transaction involving certain   
 lease certificates of participation; stating      
 purpose for the release of Opera House            
 Property from said transaction; requesting        
 necessary actions be taken for release of the     
 Opera House Property from said transaction;       
 approving certain documents in connection         
 with the release of said leasehold interest;      
 authorizing certain other actions in connection   
 with the foregoing; and containing a              
 severability clause.                              
             Board Bill No. 70                     
       An ordinance authorizing and approving      
 the First Amendment to Amended and                
 Restated Master Lease between the City of         
 St. Louis, Missouri ("City") and St. Louis        
 Municipal Finance Corporation (the "Finance       
 Corp") pursuant to which the real property        
 on which the Kiel Opera House is released         
 and removed from the terms and provisions         
 of the Amended and Restated Master Lease,         
 and the Agreement Relating to Existing            
 Agreements among the City the Land                
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority for         
 the City of St. Louis ("Authority"), Finance      
 Corp, Kiel Center Redevelopment                   
 Corporation ("KCRC"), Kiel Center Partners,       
 L.P. ("KCP") and Opera House                      
 Redevelopment           Company,        LLC       
 ("Redeveloper") pursuant to which certain         
 agreements relating to the Kiel Opera House       
 and Scottrade Center are amended; authorizing     
 certain other actions; and containing a           
 severability clause.                              
           Board Bill No. 71                       
        (Committee Substitute)                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
 of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing         
 and approving all of the following agreements     
 and actions relating to the redevelopment and    
 financing of the Kiel Opera House: (1) a         
 Master Lease between The City of St. Louis,      
 Missouri ("City") and the Land Clearance for     
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.       
 Louis ("Authority") pursuant to which the        
 City is leasing the real property on which the   
 Kiel Opera House is located to the Authority,    
 (2) an Agreement for Payment in Lieu of Taxes    
 between the City and Opera House                 
 Redevelopment            Company,           LLC  
 ("Redeveloper") pursuant to which the            
 Redeveloper has agreed to make certain           
 payments in lieu of taxes, (3) a Non-            
 Disturbance and Attornment Agreement             
 among the City, the Authority and                
 Redeveloper pursuant to which the City and       
 the Authority agree to take and to forbear from  
 taking certain actions relating to the leasing of
 said real property; (4) the Cooperation          
 Agreement among the City, the Authority, the     
 Redeveloper, St. Louis Blues Hockey Club,        
 L.P. ("Club") and 14th and Market                
 Community          Improvement          District 
 ("District") pursuant to which the parties agree 
 upon procedures for the collection and           
 allocation of certain funds, and (5) the         
 designation of the Redevelopment Area to be      
 a "recovery zone" and designating up to          
 $21,000,000 aggregate face amount of bonds       
 to be issued by the Authority as "recovery       
 zone facility bonds"; authorizing certain other  
 actions; and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 72                      
        (Committee Substitute)                    
      An ordinance authorizing and approving      
 the Agreement for Payment or Defeasance of       
 Bonds relating to the redevelopment and          
 financing of Kiel Opera House; authorizing       
 certain other actions; and containing a          
 severability clause.                             
             Board Bill No. 26                    
       An Ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Board of Estimate and            
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the      
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of      
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter      
 into and execute on behalf of the City the       
 "First Amendment To Lambert-St. Louis            
 International Airports(R) (the "Airport")        
 Concession Agreement (Airport Spa)" (the         
 "First Amendment") to the Airport Spa            
 Concession Agreement AL-431 between the          
 City and XpresSpa St. Louis Airport, LLC,        
 (the "Concessionaire") a corporation organized   
 and existing under the laws of the State of      
 New York, and authorized by City Ordinance       
 No. 67907, approved March 3, 2008 (the           
 "Agreement"); the First Amendment, which         
 is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT "1"             
 and made a part hereto, was approved by the      
 City's Airport Commission, and its terms more    
fully described in Section One of this            
Ordinance; providing that the provisions set      
forth in this Ordinance shall be applicable       
exclusively the Agreement as amended by the       
First Amendment; containing a severability        
clause; and containing an emergency clause.       
            Board Bill No. 27                     
      An Ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Board of Estimate and             
Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter       
into and execute on behalf of the City the        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
("Airport") Ground Transportation                 
Concession Agreement AL-441 (the                  
"Agreement"), between the City and Best           
Transportation, Inc. (the "Concessionaire"),      
granting to the Concessionaire the non-           
exclusive right, license, obligation, and         
privilege to manage and operate a Ground          
Transportation Concession at the Airport as       
described in the Agreement, subject to and in     
accordance with the terms, covenants, and         
conditions of the Agreement, which was            
approved by the Airport Commission and is         
attached hereto as ATTACHMENT "1" and             
made a part hereof; providing that the            
provisions set forth in this Ordinance shall be   
applicable exclusively to the Agreement;          
containing a severability clause; and containing  
an emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 49                     
      An ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Airport Commission and the        
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,              
ratifying and adopting the actions of the         
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of     
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the   
"Airport"), in accepting and executing on         
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement      
offered by the United States of America (the      
"Grant Agreement"), acting through the            
Federal Aviation Administration of the United     
States Department of Transportation, the          
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-       
29-0085-115-2009, dated March 4, 2009, for        
a maximum federal obligation of Two Million       
Sixteen Thousand Two Hundred Thirteen             
Dollars ($2,016,213), which is filed in the       
Office of the City Register [Comptroller          
Document No. 58874], for the reimbursement        
of direct costs associated with the               
rehabilitation of Taxiway S (Runway 6 to          
Taxiway D - Part A; and containing an             
emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 50                     
      An ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Airport Commission and the        
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,              
ratifying and adopting the actions of the         
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.       
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of      
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the    
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on          
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement       
 offered by the United States of America (the       
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the             
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United      
 States Department of Transportation, the           
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-        
 29-0085-118-2009, dated February 24, 2009,         
 for a maximum federal obligation of Six Million    
 Seven Hundred Thirty Four Thousand One             
 Hundred Forty Four Dollars ($6,734,144),           
 which is filed in the Office of the City Register  
 [Comptroller Document No. 58857], for the          
 reimbursement of direct costs associated with      
 the reconstruction of Taxiway Victor from          
 Taxiway Foxtrot to Runway 24 (Phase 1) and         
 the reconstruction of Taxiway Foxtrot from         
 Taxiway Victor to Runway 6/24; and containing      
 an emergency clause.                               
             Board Bill No. 51                      
       An ordinance recommended and                 
 approved by the Airport Commission and the         
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,               
 authorizing and directing the Director of          
 Airports and the Comptroller on behalf of the      
 City of St. Louis (the "City") the owner and       
 operator of Lambert-St. Louis International        
 Airport(R) (the "Airport") to accept and           
 execute on behalf of the City a certain Other      
 Transaction Agreement (the "Agreement")            
 offered by the Federal Aviation Administration     
 for the purchase and installation of Airport       
 Surface Detection Equipment ("ASDE"),              
 ASDE-X monitor(s), and ASDE-X system               
 enhancement communication equipment at the         
 Airport for a maximum obligation of Five           
 Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) for the        
 purchase and installation associated with the      
 projects funded under the Agreement; and           
 containing an emergency clause.                    
             Board Bill No. 52                      
       An Ordinance recommended and                 
 approved by the Airport Commission, Board          
 of Public Service, and the Board of Estimate       
 and Apportionment authorizing a Fourth             
 Amendment to Section Six of the Airfield           
 Projects Public Works Ordinance 65162              
 approved February 15, 2001, as amended by          
 Ordinance 65626 approved August 5, 2002,           
 Ordinance 66611 approved February 16,              
 2005, and Ordinance 67114 approved June 5,         
 2006, which authorized a multi-year public         
 work and improvement program (the "Airfield        
 Projects") at Lambert-St. Louis International      
 Airport(R), authorizing the Director of Airports   
 to make such applications and provide such         
 data and to take whatever action necessary to      
 seek funds under the Airport Improvement           
 Program, the Passenger Facility Charge             
 Program or other federal, state or local       
 programs for Airfield Projects therein         
 authorized where such costs or expenditures    
 are deemed eligible and monies made available  
 for those costs under federal, state, or local 
 law or contract and to authorize the deposit   
 of such funds into Ordinance 65162 as          
 amended to reimburse the costs in part of the  
 Airfield Projects or the payment of costs      
 authorized therein; containing a severability  
 clause; and containing an emergency clause.    
           Board Bill No. 73                    
        (Committee Substitute)                  
      An Ordinance amending and                 
 supplementing Ordinance No. 68197 and          
 authorizing the execution and delivery of a    
 Sixteenth Supplemental Indenture with          
 respect to the issuance of the Series 2009A    
 Airport Revenue Bonds and a Seventeenth        
 Supplemental Indenture with respect to the     
 issuance of the Series 2009B Airport Revenue   
 Refunding Bonds, and an Amended and            
 Restated Indenture of Trust to be effective    
 only upon receipt of the requisite bondholder  
 or bond insurer consent with respect to        
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)     
 Revenue Bonds previously issued and which      
 may hereafter be issued; authorizing a tender  
 or exchange offer for certain bonds;           
 superseding provisions of prior ordinances of  
 the City to the extent inconsistent with the   
 terms hereof; containing a severability clause;
 and containing an emergency clause.            
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                   
      Board of Aldermen                         
           Office of the Mayor                  
 City of St. Louis                              
 Room 200 City Hall                             
 1200 Market Street                             
 St. Louis, MO 63103                            
 (314) 622-3201                                 
 June 8, 2009                                   
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
 Room 230 City Hall                             
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                      
 Dear Board Members:                            
      I have the honor to return to you         
 herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,   
 Board Bills No. 26, 27, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 73  
 (Committee Substitute).                        
      Sincerely                                 
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                           
      Mayor                                     
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                     
      None.                                     
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                     
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                     
         BOARD BILLS FOR                           
          THIRD READING                            
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
     None.                                         
           RESOLUTIONS                             
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
     None.                                         
           FIRST READING                           
           OF BOARD BILLS                          
Board Members Young and Triplett                   
introduced by request:                             
           Board Bill No. 103                      
     An ordinance establishing a Gateway           
Mall Advisory Board and providing for its          
membership, authority and responsibilities.        
Board Member Davis introduced by request:          
           Board Bill No. 104                      
      An Ordinance amending Ordinance              
Numbers 65857 and 66431 and 67059                  
pertaining to the Grand Center Redevelopment       
Area approving a Tax Increment Financing           
Redevelopment Agreement for the Grand              
Center Redevelopment Area; approving a third       
Amendment to the Redevelopment Agreement           
contained in Exhibit A to such Ordinances;         
prescribing other matters and making findings      
with respect thereto; authorizing certain          
actions by City officials; and containing a        
severability clause.                               
Board Members Triplett and Florida                 
introduced by request:                             
           Board Bill No. 105                      
      An ordinance pertaining to a registration    
fee for vacant buildings and structures; defining  
ownership for the purpose of this ordinance;       
establishing an initial registration fee of fifty  
dollars ($50), a fee of one hundred and fifty      
dollars ($150) for the second year and a fee of    
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) for the       
third and each subsequent year to be charged       
to the owner of any parcel of residential          
property improved by a residential structure,      
or commercial property improved by a               
structure containing multiple dwelling units,      
which is vacant and has been vacant for at         
least 60 days; establishing a penalty clause;      
requiring an authorized agent either maintain      
an office or live in the State of Illinois or      
Missouri; requiring the owner to secure and        
maintain the vacant building; appealing            
determination of a vacant building; defining       
vacant for the purpose of this ordinance;          
defining creditor for the purpose of this          
ordinance; requirements of a creditor for the      
purpose of this ordinance; deeming registration    
statements as prima facie proof of evidence;       
initial notification; use of collected funds;      
containing an enforcement clause and               
containing a severability clause.                  
 Board Member Conway introduced by                
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 106                    
       An Ordinance pertaining to the             
 Transportation Sales Tax imposed pursuant        
 to Senate Bill 432 as adopted and approved       
 by the voters of St. Louis City on August 2,     
 1994, pursuant to Ordinance 63168; creating      
 the "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust         
 Fund" directing the Treasurer of the City of     
 St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant     
 to said sales tax into the "City Public Transit  
 Sales Tax Trust Fund" appropriating NINE         
 MILLION, NINE HUNDRED SEVENTY-                   
 FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($9,975,000)               
 from the said sales tax for the period herein    
 stated to the Bi-State Development Agency        
 for certain purposes; providing for the          
 payment of such funds during the period July     
 1, 2009 through, June 30, 2010; further          
 providing that in no event shall the             
 Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer       
 for an amount greater than the amounts of the    
 proceeds deposited in the "City Public Transit   
 Sales Tax Trust Fund" during the period of       
 July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010; containing   
 a severability clause.                           
 Board Members Conway and President               
 Reed introduced by request:                      
            Board Bill No. 107                    
      An ordinance appropriating the sum of,      
 of NINETEEN MILLION, TWO                         
 HUNDRED TWENTY-SEVEN THOU-                       
 SAND DOLLARS ($19,227,000) as described          
 and defined in Section 94.600 through 94.655,    
 R.S. Mo. Supp. 1986 as amended for the period    
 herein stated, which sum is hereby               
 appropriated out of the "Transportation          
 Trust Fund" to the Bi-State Development          
 Agency for transportation purposes; and          
 further providing that the appropriation is      
 conditional upon the Bi-State Development        
 Agency supplying the Board of Estimate and       
 Apportionment an annual evaluation report;       
 further providing that in no event shall the     
 Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer       
 for an amount greater than the amount of         
 proceeds deposited in the "Transportation        
 Trust Fund" during the period from July 1,       
 2009 through June 30, 2010; providing for        
 the appropriation to be reduced if certain       
 funds are used for other than public transit     
 purposes; further providing that the             
 appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State       
 requiring the payment of prevailing wages and    
 benefits to employees of outside service         
 contractors; and containing a severability       
 clause.                                          
 Board Members Conway and President               
 Reed introduced by request:                      
           Board Bill No. 108                  
       An ordinance recommended and            
 approved by the Board of Estimate and         
 Apportionment authorizing The City of St.     
 Louis, Missouri, to enter into a Third        
 Amendment to Memorandum of Agreement          
 with the Bi-State Development Agency of the   
 Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District and   
 St. Louis County, Missouri, amending that     
 certain Memorandum of Agreement dated as      
 of November 1, 2002, as amended, for the      
 purpose of providing funds to refund certain  
 outstanding sales tax appropriation bonds     
 issued by said Agency; authorizing said       
 Agency to issue refunding obligations payable 
 from annual appropriation of the quarter-cent 
 sales tax levied by the City for public mass  
 transportation purposes by Ordinance No.      
 63168 and other available revenues of said    
 Agency; and authorizing the City to take other
 necessary actions in connection with such     
 refunding obligations.                        
 Board Member Young introduced by              
 request:                                      
           Board Bill No. 109                  
      An Ordinance Amending Ordinance No.      
 68101 Adopted By The Board Of Aldermen        
 On July 28, 2008; Authorizing The Execution   
 Of An Amendment To Redevelopment              
 Agreement By And Between The City And         
 Laurel TIF, Inc.; Prescribing The Form And    
 Details Of Said Amendment; Making Certain     
 Findings With Respect Thereto; Authorizing    
 Other Related Actions; And Containing A       
 Severability Clause.                          
 Board Member Young introduced by              
 request:                                      
           Board Bill No. 110                  
       An Ordinance Recommended By The         
 Board Of Estimate And Apportionment           
 Repealing Ordinance No. 68102 of the City     
 of St. Louis and in Lieu Thereof Authorizing  
 And Directing The Issuance And Delivery Of    
 Not To Exceed $32,000,000 Plus Issuance       
 Costs Principal Amount Of Tax Increment       
 Revenue Notes (The Laurel / 555 Washington    
 Redevelopment Project) Series 200_-A/B, Of    
 The City Of St. Louis, Missouri; Prescribing  
 The Form And Details Of Such Notes And        
 The Covenants And Agreements Made By          
 The City To Facilitate And Protect The        
 Payment Thereof; Prescribing Other Matters    
 Relating Thereto, And Containing A            
 Severability Clause.                          
 Board Member Villa introduced by request:     
            Board Bill No. 111                 
     An ordinance authorizing and directing    
 execution of a Cooperation Agreement          
 between the City of St. Louis and the YMCA    
 of Greater St.. Louis (the "YMCA" ), a        
Missouri not-for-profit corporation , which       
provides for the operation by the YMCA of         
a City recreation facility in Carondelet Park.    
Board Member Kennedy introduced by                
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 112                     
      An Ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Board of Estimate and             
Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter       
into and execute on behalf of the City the        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
Restated and Amended Concession Agreement         
(Display Advertising) (AL-22) (the                
"Concession Agreement"), between the City         
and Clear Channel Outdoor Inc., d/b/a Clear       
Channel Airports (the "Concessionaire"), a        
corporation organized and existing under the      
laws of the State of Delaware, granting to the    
Concessionaire the non-exclusive right, license,  
and privilege to design, construct, operate,      
manage, and maintain a Display Advertising        
Concession within the premises as described       
in the Concession Agreement, subject to and       
in accordance with the terms, covenants, and      
conditions of the Concession Agreement,           
which was approved by the Airport                 
Commission and is attached hereto as              
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof;            
providing that the provisions set forth in this   
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to      
the Concession Agreement; containing a            
severability clause; and containing an            
emergency clause.                                 
Board Member Davis introduced by request:         
           Board Bill No. 113                     
     An ordinance prohibiting the issuance        
of any package or drink liquor licenses for       
any currently non-licensed premises within        
the boundaries of the Nineteenth Ward Liquor      
Control District, as established herein, for a    
period of three years from the effective date     
hereof; containing exceptions and allowing,       
during the moratorium period, for the transfer    
of existing licenses, under certain               
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink        
license to persons operating a restaurant at a    
previously non-licensed premises and              
containing an emergency clause.                   
Board Member Young introduced by                  
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 114                     
      An ordinance pertaining to sampling,        
portable structures, and special event permits;   
defining the terms "sampling" and "portable       
structures", prohibiting any individual from      
sampling within an special event zone as          
designated by special event permit; prohibiting   
any individual from erecting a portable           
 structure within a special event zone as           
 designated by special event permit without         
 prior approval of the Special Events Program       
 Executive; containing a sunset clause and an       
 emergency clause.                                  
 Board Member President Reed introduced             
 by request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 115                      
       An ordinance pertaining to the               
 definitions of drug paraphernalia, amending        
 Ordinance 66419, approved August 2, 2004,          
 codified as Chapter 11.61 of the Revised Code,     
 by repealing Section 11.61.010 pertaining to       
 the definitions of drug paraphernalia and          
 enacting in lieu thereof a new section pertaining  
 to the same subject matter; and containing a       
 severability clause and emergency clause.          
 Board Member President Reed introduced             
 by request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 116                      
       An ordinance providing for additional        
 court costs of up to one hundred fifty dollars     
 ($150.00) per municipal ordinance violation        
 of Chapters 11.60 and 11.61 of the Revised         
 Code of the City of St. Louis filed before a       
 municipal division judge or associate circuit      
 judge, in which a crime laboratory makes           
 analysis of a controlled substance; providing      
 that such costs shall be collected by the Clerk    
 of the City Courts, and deposited into the         
 City treasury monthly; containing an               
 emergency clause.                                  
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                         
        BOARD BILLS                                 
          Convention and Tourism                    
             Board Bill No. 114.                    
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions               
                 None.                              
        Health and Human Services                   
                  None.                             
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning                
    Board Bills No. 104, 109 and 110.               
         Intergovernmental Affairs                  
                   None.                            
                  Legislation                       
                    None.                           
        Neighborhood Development                    
                  None.                             
     Parks and Environmental Matters                
        Board Bills No. 103 and 111.                
       Personnel and Administration                 
                  None.                             
              Public Employees                      
                    None.                           
               Public Safety                        
   Board Bills No. 105, 113, 115 and 116.           
                Public Utilities                    
                    None.                           
         Streets, Traffic and Refuse           
                    None.                      
      Transportation and Commerce              
           Board Bill No. 112.                 
             Ways and Means                    
      Board Bills No. 106, 107 and 108.        
     President Reed requested that Board Bill  
 No. 92 be moved from the Committee on         
 Transportation and Commerce to the            
 Committee on Ways and Means.                  
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                    
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                     
     Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways       
 and Means submitted the following report      
 which was read.                               
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,      
 June 12, 2009.                                
      To the President of the Board of         
 Aldermen:                                     
      The Committee on Ways and Means to       
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,  
 report that they have considered the same and 
 recommend adoption.                           
           Board Bill No. 1                    
        (Committee Substitute)                 
      An ordinance making appropriation for    
 payment of Interest, Expenses and Principal   
 of the City's Bonded Indebtedness,            
 establishing City tax rates, and making       
 appropriation for current year expenses of    
 the City Government, Water Division, St.      
 Louis Airport Commission, Affordable          
 Housing Trust Fund, Health Care Trust Fund,   
 Use Tax Excess Trust Fund, Building           
 Demolition Fund, Assessor, Victim's Fund,     
 Communications Division, City Employee        
 Pension Trust Fund, Forest Park Fund, Child   
 Support Unit (Circuit Attorney's Office),     
 Circuit Attorney Training and Collection Fee  
 Funds, Port Administration, Peace Officer     
 Training Fund, Capital Improvement Projects   
 Fund, Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust    
 Fund, Metro Parks Sales Tax Fund,             
 Centralized Mailroom Internal Service Fund,   
 Tourism Fund, Lateral Sewer Fund, Public      
 Safety Trust Fund, Public Safety Sales Tax    
 Trust Fund, Local Parks Fund, Neighborhood    
 Parks Fund, BJC/City Trust Fund.              
 Miscellaneous Special Funds, Trustee Lease    
 Fund, Riverfront Gaming Fund, Various Grant   
 Funds, Tax Increment District Special         
 Allocation Fund, City Convention and Sports   
 Facility Trust Fund and Employee Benefits     
 Fund (Department of Personnel); for the Fiscal
 Year beginning July 1, 2009 and ending June   
 30, 2010, amounting in the aggregate to the   
 sum of Nine Hundred Sixty Million, Eight      
 Hundred Forty One Thousand, Seven             
 Hundred        Seventy Eight Dollars          
 ($960,841,778) which sum is hereby            
appropriated from Revenue and Special Funds       
named for the purposes hereinafter                
enumerated and containing an emergency            
clause.                                           
            Board Bill No. 63                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing      
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
consideration of the sum of Two Thousand          
Dollars ($2,000.00) and other good and            
valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to      
remise, release and forever quit-claim unto       
Union Electric Company, dba AmerenUE,             
certain City-owned property located in City       
Block 3879-S, which property is an irregular      
parcel fronting an alley and containing 500       
square feet, more or less, and containing an      
emergency clause.                                 
          Board Bill No. 92                       
       (Committee Substitute)                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute a Missouri Highways And          
Transportation Commission Easement For            
Highway Purposes to the State of Missouri,        
acting by and through the Missouri Highways       
and Transportation Commission, for certain        
City-owned property located in City Blocks        
236 and 237, which property is described as a     
permanent aerial easement for the                 
construction and maintenance of Interstate        
Highway 70 across a tract of land, and            
containing 38,672 square feet, more or less,      
upon receipt of and in consideration of the       
sum of Seventy-Nine Thousand Nine                 
Hundred Dollars ($79,900.00), and containing      
an emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 95                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
consideration of the sum of Forty-Three           
Thousand Six Hundred Fifty Dollars                
($43,650.00) and other good and valuable          
consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to remise,       
release and forever quit-claim unto               
Cornerstone/St. Luke's, Inc., certain City-       
owned property located in City Blocks 4547        
and 4548, which property is known as 5632-        
38 and 5637-49 Enright Avenue containing          
52,860 square feet, more or less, and containing  
an emergency clause.                              
     Alderman Conway                              
     Chairman of the Committee                    
     Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,      
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following        
report which was read.                            
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,          
June 12, 2009.                                    
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
       The Committee on Streets, Traffic and      
 Refuse to whom was referred the following        
 Board Bills, report that they have considered    
 the same and recommend adoption.                 
            Board Bill No. 94                     
       An ordinance recommended by the            
 Parking Commission making appropriation for      
 payment of the operating expenses, capital       
 equipment and improvement expenses,              
 including lease purchase agreements involving    
 Parking Division assets, and debt service        
 expenses of the Parking Division of the          
 Treasurer's Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,     
 Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking        
 Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility,       
 Central Downtown Parking Facility, Cupples       
 Parking Facility and Justice Parking Facility    
 for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2009 and   
 ending June 30, 2010, amounting in the           
 aggregate to the sum of Thirteen Million, Five   
 Hundred Eighty Six Thousand, Three Hundred       
 Fifty Six Dollars ($13,586,356) and containing   
 an emergency clause.                             
            Board Bill No. 41                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board       
 of Public Service to vacate above surface,       
 surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,      
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in the 20 foot  
 wide east-west alley and the easternmost         
 355.66 feet of the 15 foot wide east-west alley  
 of City Block 1858 as bounded by Cass,           
 Webster, Evans and Francis in the City of St.    
 Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in    
 accordance with Charter authority, and in        
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of     
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions      
 on such vacation.                                
      Alderman Bosley                             
      Chairman of the Committee                   
            REPORT OF                             
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                        
      None.                                       
            PERFECTION                            
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
       Mr. Wessels moved that the following       
 Board Bills before the Board for perfection,     
 be perfected as reported out of Committee        
 with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board         
 Bills No. 64 and 77.                             
      Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
       None.                                      
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
       None.                                      
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
        OF BOARD BILLS                            
       None.                                      
          REPORT OF THE                           
      ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        
      None.                                       
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       President Reed introduced Resolutions      
 No. 60 - 66 and the Clerk was instructed to      
 read same.                                       
            Resolution No. 60                     
            Dr. Rudy A. Pulido                    
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that        
 on June 30, 2009, Dr. Rudy A. Pulido will        
 retire as Senior Pastor of Southwest Baptist     
 Church; and                                      
      WHEREAS, Dr. Pulido began his service       
 to Southwest Baptist Church on July 1, 1979;     
 and                                              
       WHEREAS, in his thirty years of            
 service, Dr. Pulido has been recognized by       
 both the denomination and the community          
 for his leadership. He has received honors       
 from three of the four Baptist colleges and      
 universities in the state. He has been honored   
 by the Jewish Community Relations Council        
 for his efforts on behalf of religious liberty.  
 He has served on the advisory boards of two      
 hospitals; and                                   
      WHEREAS, Dr. Pulido presently serves        
 on the South Side YMCA Advisory Board,           
 the Baptist General Convention of Missouri       
 Advisory Board, the St, Louis Interfaith         
 Partnership Cabinet and is the President of      
 the St. Louis Chapter of Americans United        
 for Separation of Church and State; and          
       WHEREAS, as Senior Pastor, Dr. Pulido      
 has led the church in expanding its mission      
 emphasis. Mission teams from Southwest           
 Baptist Church have served on every              
 inhabitable continent. The church's eighty-      
 eight year history of financially supporting     
 world wide missions went over the one million    
 dollar mark during Dr. Pulido's years of service.
 Working with other churches in the               
 neighborhood, Dr. Pulido has been instrumental   
 in cultivating the spirit of ecumenicalism; and  
       WHEREAS, during his years of service       
 to the church, Southwest Baptist Church has      
 undergone major renovations.           The       
 improvements continue to make the church         
 facility one of the most attractive in the       
 community; and                                   
     WHEREAS, among his many                      
 accomplishments, Dr. Pulido personally takes     
joy in are his role in keeping Southwest Baptist    
Church a free and historic Baptist church, one      
whose doors are open to all people and his          
role in having the Religious Freedom                
Restoration Act passed in the state of              
Missouri in 2003                                    
     WHEREAS, Dr. Pulido and his wife               
Doris are the parents of two children, Scott        
and Jennifer and five grandchildren, Mikayla,       
Peyton, Ryan, Owen and Zane.                        
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
deliberations to recognize Dr. Rudy A. Pulido       
for his many accomplishments and we direct          
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of         
this Resolution across the minutes of these         
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative          
copy to the end that it may be presented to         
our honoree at a time and place deemed              
appropriate by the Sponsor.                         
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2009 by:         
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward         
            Resolution No. 61                       
     WHEREAS, the Arts Council of                   
Lafayette Park is a non-profit organization         
created to provide artistic events and outreach     
in Lafayette Park; and                              
      WHEREAS, this summer the council is           
providing three movie events. Movies in the         
Park involves not just showing a movie, but         
an evening of activities all provided for free to   
the public. Movies in the Park events will          
involve outreach by partnering with a charity       
for each event. The partnership will provide        
a venue for the charities' members and              
recipients as well as a fundraiser for the charity  
and our non-profit. The three events will be        
held on Saturday June 13th, Saturday July           
11th and Saturday September 19th; and               
      WHEREAS, the three charities the Arts         
Council of Lafayette Park is partnering with        
are Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern             
Missouri, Basket of Hope and USO of                 
Missouri, Inc. Big Brothers' mission is to          
provide a mentor for every child who wants          
and needs one. Basket of Hope gives hope to         
children with cancer and other serious illnesses.   
The USO's mission is to enhance the quality         
of life of the U.S. Armed Forces personnel          
and their families worldwide and to create a        
cooperative relationship between U.S. military      
communities and involved or supporting              
civilian communities; and                           
       WHEREAS, the Arts Council of                 
Lafayette Park is expressing their commitment       
to the 2010 Census. The organization feels          
that it will be able to help increase awareness     
about the Census at all three of our events.        
 Examples of how we can help are: he U.S.          
 Census Bureau can set-up a booth at the event,    
 a representative from the Census Bureau can       
 speak to the crowd, or the Emcee can read a       
 Census statement, an informational document       
 can be added to the programs that every adult     
 in attendance receives and Census 2010 signs      
 could be put up at the event; and                 
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize that the Arts          
 Council of Lafayette Park is active in the        
 community, a great community partner, and         
 their work with the United States 2010 Census     
 would be an extension of their past work.         
 Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2009 by:      
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard  
            Resolution No. 62                      
  150th Anniversary of Mount Zion                  
      Missionary Baptist Church                    
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised that          
 Mount Zion Missionary Baptist Church will         
 be celebrating its 150th Anniversary; and         
       WHEREAS, in 1859, during the                
 pastoral leadership of the Reverend John          
 Richard Anderson at the Second Baptist            
 Church, in the homes of Mother Lucy               
 Crawford and Mother Hannah Cabelle, the           
 birth of a new Christian fellowship took place.   
 Members of the rather new Second Colored          
 Baptist Church (Central Baptist Church),          
 along with other interested persons joined        
 together in these homes to seek through           
 prayer, spiritual guidance and direction. A       
 fervent desire for a regular meeting facility     
 and as well for the establishment of a formal     
 organization grew out of these meetings. These    
 were the earliest and humble beginnings of the    
 Mount Zion Missionary Baptist Church; and         
        WHEREAS, it was organized as the           
 Mount Zion Baptist Church, becoming one           
 of the oldest African American congregations      
 in the city. Under the able and effective         
 leadership of their fore parents, the Mount       
 Zion Missionary Baptist Church became a           
 strong and viable religious force within the      
 life and history of St. Louis and America. The    
 first pastor to serve this congregation was the   
 Reverend Wyatt Scott. The very first facility     
 to house this congregation was provided by        
 the gracious and generous effort of Mother        
 Rosie Ross, a log cabin donated by a white        
 family who were the slavers of Sister Ross        
 and who supported her efforts on behalf of        
 this newly organized African American Baptist     
 Church. This building was located east of         
 Jefferson Avenue at Papin Street; and             
      WHEREAS, subsequent to Pastor                
 Scott's leadership, the pulpit was assumed        
 by the Reverend Slater. Under his pastoral      
 leadership, the congregation began the          
 purchase of a new church facility located at    
 2624 Papin Street. Also, serving in this early  
 period were the Reverend Burns and the          
 Reverend J. P. Nichols; and                     
       WHEREAS, the Reverend Humphrey            
 next assumed the pastoral charge of the Mount   
 Zion congregation. Next to assume the pastoral  
 leadership as the Reverend J. W. Powell.        
 Under his leadership, the mortgage on the       
 church property at 2624 Papin Street was        
 liquidated. Also among this group of early      
 church leaders was the Reverend G. W. Benton.   
 The Reverend William H. Harris was next to      
 assume the reins of this historic church family.
 However, at the close of his administration,    
 the Mount Zion Baptist Church gave birth to     
 her first daughter, the Calvary Missionary      
 Baptist Church; and                             
      WHEREAS, in 1919, the Reverend J.          
 W. Brown accepted the call for pastoral         
 leadership and it was during his ministry that  
 2624 Papin Street was sold and property was     
 purchased and the first phase of the new        
 church facility was completed in 1923. He       
 served the congregation for six additional      
 years; and                                      
        WHEREAS, in 1929, the Reverend W.        
 Fields became the pastoral leadership for this  
 flock. Under his spiritual direction, the first 
 study course was held at the Mount Zion         
 Missionary Baptist Church; it was sponsored     
 by the Sunday Church School. In 1935, the       
 church moved into a dynamic new phase in        
 her life, legacy and history. The Reverend      
 Jeremiah M. Baker became the eleventh pastor    
 of this historic church and became the first    
 pastor to serve more than forty years. During   
 his administration, the mortgage for the old    
 facility was liquidated and the new church      
 facility was erected. The membership marched    
 into the new church facility on Sunday,         
 September 18, 1949; and                         
       WHEREAS, in September 1979, a             
 whole new dimension of pastoral leadership      
 and brilliance emerged with the calling of the  
 Reverend Sammie Earl Jones. Building on a       
 foundation of stability and security left by    
 the founding fathers, the Mount Zion Baptist    
 Church moved into a new decade with a new,      
 young and talent spiritual giant. Reverend      
 Jones, a young and energetic minister,          
 immediately caught the attention of the church  
 membership. His personality and charm were      
 like a magnet drawing the young and the old     
 to the service of Christ, the church and the    
 kingdom of God. Also, under his leadership,     
 Mount Zion has completed construction of a      
 new edifice in 1992, a new daycare building in  
 1995, two senior buildings (a 38-bed unit and   
 a 36-bed unit completed in 2000 and 2003        
respectively) and a Family Life Center            
comprised of a gymnasium and six new              
classrooms in 2005.                               
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
deliberations to recognize Mount Zion             
Missionary Baptist Church on their 150th          
Anniversary and thank them for their              
innumerable contributions to the City of St.      
Louis in the community and we further direct      
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of       
this Resolution across the minutes of these       
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
copy to the end that it may be presented to       
our honoree at a time and place deemed            
appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2009 by:      
Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard  
           Resolution No. 63                      
 The 150th Anniversary Missouri                   
          Botanical Garden                        
     WHEREAS, we pause in our                     
deliberations to recognize the 150th              
Anniversary of the Missouri Botanical             
Garden; and                                       
      WHEREAS, founded by Henry Shaw              
"for all time for the public good," the Missouri  
Botanical Garden opened to the public June        
15, 1859, making it the oldest botanical garden   
in continuous operation in the nation and was     
designated a National Historic Landmark in        
1976; and                                         
      WHEREAS, in its mission "To discover        
and share knowledge about plants and their        
environment, in order to preserve and enrich      
life" the Garden is a leader in plant science,    
research, conservation and education and a        
civic treasure nestled in the heart of the City   
of St. Louis with 79 acres of beautiful           
horticultural display beloved by St. Louisans     
for 150 years; and                                
     WHEREAS, Missouri Botanical                  
Garden's facilities include Shaw Nature           
Reserve, 2,400 acres of landscape with diverse    
native plant and animal habitats; the Sophia      
M. Sachs Butterfly House, which features a        
glass conservatory filled with tropical plants    
and butterflies in free flight; and EarthWays     
Center, which showcases practical                 
demonstrations to promote sustainability to       
individuals and businesses; and                   
     WHEREAS, Dr. Peter H. Raven, one of          
the world's leading botanists and advocate of     
conservation and biodiversity, has presided       
over the Garden for the past 38 years and has     
been named a "Hero for the Planet" by Time        
magazine; and                                     
       WHEREAS, the Garden's dedicated                 
 staff and thousands of volunteers work to             
 articulate its mission and provide community          
 outreach throughout the region; and                   
       WHEREAS, the Missouri Botanical                 
 Garden's sesquicentennial on June 15, 2009            
 is an achievement of historic proportions for         
 St. Louis.                                            
      NOW THEREFORE IT BE                              
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to recognize the many                   
 contributions of the Missouri Botanical               
 Garden to the citizens of the City of St. Louis,      
 and we further direct the Clerk of this Board         
 to include a copy of this Resolution in the           
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a         
 memorial copy for presentation at a time and          
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
 Introduced on June 12th, 2009 by:                     
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward         
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward             
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward           
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward           
 Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward            
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard        
 Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward          
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward         
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward          
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward             
 HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward         
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward           
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward           
             Resolution No. 64                         
                Justen Yao                             
      WHEREAS, Justen Yao was born on                  
 January 29, 1993 and has become a table tennis        
 champion in North America and in Sweden;              
 and                                                   
      WHEREAS, he began his international              
 winning career at age 12 on the 2005 Swedish          
 Tour and continued his winning streak that            
 year as the US National Cadet Trials                  
 Champion, the #1 US Cadet Team player; and            
     WHEREAS, in 2006 he captured the US               
 Open Junior Singles Champion, the US Open             
 Cadet Doubles Champion and the US Open                
 U-13 Doubles Champion; and                            
      WHEREAS, in that same year he                    
 became the North American Championship                
 Junior Double Bronze Medalist, the North              
 American Championship Cadet Double Silver             
 Medalist and the North American                       
 Championship Cadet Singles Bronze                     
 Medalist; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Justen continued to lead             
 his team to victory with the 2006 US National       
 Junior Team Trials, #4 US Junior Team player,       
 the US National Cadet Trials Champion, the          
 #1 US Cadet Team player and the North               
 American Team Championship U-18                     
 Champion; and                                       
      WHEREAS, in 2007 he was named the              
 USOC/USATT Male Athlete of the Year, the            
 US National Junior Trials Champion, the #1          
 US Junior Team player, the US National Cadet        
 Trials Champion, the #1 US Cadet Team               
 player; and                                         
      WHEREAS, he earned the 2007 First              
 Annual Nate Wasserman Memorial                      
 Scholarship Award as the best player under          
 the age of 14 in the United States; and             
      WHEREAS, in 2008 he became the                 
 Wasserman Junior Champion, under the age            
 of 18 and as his crowning victory he claimed        
 the North American Championship Cadet               
 Singles Gold Medalist prize.                        
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
 deliberations to congratulate Justen Yao and        
 we wish him continued success and                   
 accomplishment and we further direct the            
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this        
 Resolution across the minutes of these              
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative          
 copy to the end that it may be presented to         
 our honoree at a time and place deemed              
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                         
 Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2009 by:        
 Honorable Stephen J. ConwayAlderman 8th Ward        
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
             Resolution No. 65                       
       Police Officer Derrick Frye                   
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that           
 Police Officer Derrick Frye has been selected       
 as the Sixth District's Officer of the Year 2008;   
 and                                                 
      WHEREAS, Officer Frye entered the              
 Police Academy on October 3, 2005 and was           
 commissioned on May 18, 2006. Officer Frye          
 has been in the Sixth District his entire career;   
 and                                                 
      WHEREAS, In addition, Officer Frye             
 was named the Sixth District's Officer of the       
 Month for July; and                                 
       WHEREAS, Officer Frye has shown               
 extreme diligence and vigor as he approaches        
 his daily tasks of being a Police Officer.          
 Throughout the year Officer Frye has                
 promptly reported to work each day prepared         
 to serve the citizens in the community. Officer     
Frye has made a total of 57 arrests, which         
resulted in 196 charges filed; 67 of those         
charges were felony offenses; and                  
     WHEREAS, in many of these cases               
Officer Frye unselfishly braved extremely          
dangerous incidents wherein he has arrested        
seriously violent offenders and recovered          
many firearms; and                                 
      WHEREAS, many of these incidents             
were self-initiated as a direct result of Officer  
Frye's keen observation and his commitment         
to the community. This is proven in that he        
has worked every scheduled day, managed to         
answer 1,614 radio assignments and received        
no complaints.                                     
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our         
deliberations to congratulate Police Officer       
Derrick Frye on his achievement of being           
named the Sixth District's Officer of the Year     
2008 and we wish him continued success and         
achievement and we further direct the Clerk        
of this Board to spread a copy of this             
Resolution across the minutes of these             
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative         
copy to the end that it may be presented to        
our honoree at a time and place deemed             
appropriate by the Sponsor.                        
Introduced on the 9th day of June, 2009 by         
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward     
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard    
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward       
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward      
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward       
           Resolution No. 66                       
            Pastor Percy &                         
    Mother Castella Phillips, Jr.                  
     WHEREAS, Pastor Percy was born                
July 17, 1924 in Greenwood, Mississippi;           
and Mother Castella (Ewing) Phillips was           
born December 24, 1924 in Okalona,                 
Mississippi; and                                   
      WHEREAS, Pastor Percy and Mother             
Castella, at their own expense, fed and clothed    
the hungry and those without. They provided        
shelter, many homes to the homeless; bringing      
families together and paying all utilities and     
fully furnishing many of those homes; and          
      WHEREAS, they founded The Holy               
Temple Church of God In Christ over forty-         
one years ago. God's house, known for being        
open 7 days a week, a place of spiritual refuge    
for any and all running away from the sin; and     
      WHEREAS, built on a sure foundation,         
The Holy Temple Church of God in Christ            
will always remember their founders, Pastor        
Percy and Mother Castella Phillips, Jr., their     
perfect examples of the phrase "Behold the         
 upright!"; and                                    
       WHEREAS, The Holy Temple, often             
 accused of being open too late for the children,  
 yet the church children graduated from high       
 school. Many children were on the honor-          
 roll and became college graduates. Again, to      
 the concept of Christ, Pastor Percy and           
 Mother Castella Phillips, Jr., always             
 supported and encouraged the children,            
 providing clothes for Easter, Christmas, and      
 school all the way to graduation caps and         
 gowns, helping change the course of their         
 future; and                                       
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize Pastor Percy &         
 Mother Castella Phillips, Jr. for their many      
 achievements and accomplishments and we           
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
 of these proceedings and to prepare a             
 commemorative copy to the end that it may         
 be presented to our honorees at a time and        
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.          
 Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2009 by:      
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward      
      Unanimous consent having been                
 obtained Resolutions No. 60 - 66 stood            
 considered.                                       
      President Reed moved that Resolutions        
 No. 60 - 66 are adopted, at this meeting of the   
 Board.                                            
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
           FIRST READING OF                        
             RESOLUTIONS                           
      Ms. Young introduced Resolution No.          
 67 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.     
            Resolution No. 67                      
       WHEREAS, Ordinance 67794,                   
 approved January 14, 2008, established that       
 the annual proceeds of a sales tax shall be       
 initially deposited in a City Public Safety       
 Protection Sales Tax Fund and shall be            
 dedicated to and used for various purposes,       
 commencing with the fiscal year beginning July    
 1, 2008, and each fiscal year thereafter; and     
      WHEREAS, Section One (v) of such             
 Ordinance provides that one million dollars       
 ($1,000,000) shall be allocated annually for      
 crime prevention programs to be administered      
 by resolution of the St. Louis Board of           
 Aldermen with approval of the Public Safety       
 Committee and overseen by the City's public       
 safety department; and                            
      NOW         THEREFORE           BE     IT    
 RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance             
 67794 the Public Safety Committee does          
 hereby approve the recommendations of the       
 Public Safety Committee for the                 
 appropriation of crime prevention program       
 funds for the Fiscal Year 2009 attached hereto  
 and Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein     
 by reference.                                   
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that               
 copies of this resolution are to be maintained  
 by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed  
 in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and     
 delivered to the Director of Public Safety, the 
 Budget Division and the Comptroller.            
 Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2009 by:    
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward     
      Ms. Young moved that Resolution No.        
 67 be referred to the Committee on Public       
 Safety.                                         
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
        SECOND READINGS OF                       
           RESOLUTIONS                           
      Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.      
 9 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.    
   Resolution No. 9 As Amended                   
     with Amendments 1 & 2                       
       WHEREAS, Ordinance 67794,                 
 approved January 14, 2008, established that     
 the annual proceeds of a sales tax shall be     
 initially deposited in a City Public Safety     
 Protection Sales Tax Fund and shall be          
 dedicated to and used for various purposes,     
 commencing with the fiscal year beginning July  
 1, 2008, and each fiscal year thereafter; and   
        WHEREAS, Section One (v) of such         
 Ordinance provides that one million dollars     
 ($1,000,000) shall be allocated annually for    
 crime prevention programs to be administered    
 by resolution of the St. Louis Board of         
 Aldermen with approval by resolution of the     
 Public Safety Committee and overseen by the     
 City's public safety department but does not    
 set rules in relations to the board's actions in
 its allocation; and                             
      WHEREAS, to better facilitate the          
 allocation of this fund and to provide for      
 transparency, ensure public trust, to put       
 forward the image of good governance and to     
 provide clear guidelines for this Board actions 
 related to Ordinance 67794 rules and            
 regulations need to be established.             
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED that each member of Board of           
 Aldermen shall adhere to the following rules    
 and guidelines:                                 
1.   No Board member shall submit a               
     proposal pursuant to Ordinance 67794.        
2.   No Board member shall be a director,         
     officer, registered agent or decision        
     making member at the time of the             
     application of any agency or organization    
     or for two years prior to the application.   
3.   All Aldermen shall abide by all Federal,     
     State and Local regulations and              
     prohibitions pertaining to conflicts of      
     interest, potential conflicts of interest,   
     and/or the appearance(s) of conflicts or     
     potential conflicts of interest including,   
     but not limited to, Articles VII, Section 6  
     of the Missouri Constitution, Chapter        
     105 of the Missouri Revised Statutes,        
     Article VIII, Section 8 of the City of St.   
     Louis Charter, the Code of Conduct for       
     the Competitive Service of the City of       
     St. Louis, the City of St. Louis Canon of    
     Ethics, and the Official Oath of the City    
     of St. Louis.                                
4.   No Alderman shall have within the fourth     
     degree of consanguinity or affinity, are     
     currently employed, or have been             
     employed or under contract within the        
     last two (2) years, or have any interest,    
     material or otherwise, with or in any firms  
     being considered for the funds allocated     
     under Ordinance 67794, Section One (v).      
5.   No Alderman shall have funds paid or         
     loaned to them by any agency awarded         
     funds pursuant to Ordinance 67794            
     during the duration of the agency's          
     actions with the City related to             
     Ordinance 67794.                             
6.   Any agency or program seeking funds          
     pursuant to Ordinance 67794 which were       
     disqualified by the Professional Services    
     Agreement Selection Committee during         
     the Request for Proposals (RFP) process      
     will not be considered by the Public         
     Safety Committee for selection.              
7.   No agency or program seeking funds           
     pursuant to Ordinance 67794 which do         
     not officially and/or properly respond       
     to the Request for Proposals (RFP) and       
     whose name has not been forwarded to         
     the Public Safety cannot be considered       
     for funding by any Alderman or any           
     member of Public Safety Committee.           
     BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that                  
each member of Public Safety Committee            
pursuant to Ordinance 67794 relating to the       
recommendations of the Public Safety              
Committee for the appropriation of crime          
prevention program funds shall sign disclosure    
documents in present use by City Professional     
Services Selection Committees an/or any other     
documents assigned by the Board of Aldermen       
 and that copies of all disclosures are to be          
 maintained by the Clerk of the Board of               
 Aldermen.                                             
 Introduced on the 21st day of April, 2009 by:         
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward             
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
 Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard       
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
 HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward       
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward           
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward          
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward         
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
     Mr. Conway moved to amend                         
 Resolution No. 9 (As Amended) with                    
 Amendment No. 1.                                      
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                         
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
     Mr. Waterhouse moved to amend                     
 Resolution No. 9 (As Amended) with                    
 Amendment No. 2.                                      
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                         
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
      Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution No.            
 9 (As Amended) as amended be adopted.                 
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                         
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
      Mr. Kennedy presented the Public                 
 Safety Committee's recommendations of                 
 Resolution No. 5.                                     
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                              
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                            
       None.                                           
            ANNOUNCEMENTS                              
       None.                                           
          EXCUSED ALDERMEN                             
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the                  
 following aldermen due to their necessary             
 absence: Ms. Flowers, Ms. Triplett, Mr.               
 French and Mr. Cohn.                                  
       Seconded by Mr. Villa.                          
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
               ADJOURNMENT                             
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under              
 rules to return June 19, 2009.                        
       Seconded by Mr. Heitert.                        
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
       Respectfully submitted,                         
       David W. Sweeney                                
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                
   BOARD OF                                   
 PUBLIC SERVICE                               
          REGULAR MEETING                     
      St. Louis, MO - June 16, 2009           
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                  
      Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,  
 Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Bryson and      
 President Bradley.                           
      Absent: None.                           
      The Minutes of the Regular Meeting of   
 June 9, 2009 were unanimously approved.      
       Communications, reports, recommenda-   
 tions and documents were submitted by Board  
 Members and action thereon taken as follows: 
                LETTINGS                      
      Nine sealed proposals for the public    
 work advertised under Letting No. 8383-Wohl  
 Recreation Center Repairs was received,      
 publicly opened, read and referred to the    
 President.                                   
               PRESIDENT                      
      Preliminary approval ordered given as   
 follows and 10 days granted in which to sign 
 same:                                        
      Letting No. 8382-Cherokee Recreation    
 Center Repairs, Raineri Construction LLC,    
 5400 Devonshire, St. Louis, MO 63109,        
 Amount: $385,818.00                          
      Addendum No. 1 to the plans and specs   
 for Letting No. 8384-Fire Alarm Upgrade and  
 Replacement at America's Center ordered      
 approved and made part of the original plans.
      PSA No. 1078 with Burns and             
 McDonnell for Manchester Pedestrian          
 Lighting Project ordered approved and        
 President authorized to execute same.        
       PSA No. 1079 with Crawford, Bunte,     
 Brammeier, Inc. for Design Coordination and  
 Advanced Traffic Management System           
 Integration, Morganford Road Signal          
 Interconnect/Upgrade ordered approved and    
 President authorized to execute same.        
      PSA No. 1084 with Planning Design       
 Studio LLC for Vandeventer Avenue            
 Streetscape, Kingshighway to Shaw ordered    
 approved and President authorized to execute 
 same.                                        
     Supplemental Agreement No. 11 to PSA     
 972 with Horner and Shifrin, Inc. for Final  
 Design for the Jefferson Avenue Viaduct      
 Reconstruction ordered approved and          
President authorized to execute same.            
     Amendment to the Compton Hill               
Reservoir Park Pond Renovation Agreement         
between The Water Tower and Park                 
Preservation Society, Inc., and the City of St.  
Louis ordered approved and President             
authorized to execute same.                      
     Near Southside Median and Streetside        
Maintenance Funding Agreement between the        
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority       
and the City of St. Louis ordered approved       
and President authorized to execute same.        
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                     
      The Board declared as emergency            
actions the following: Replacement of elevator   
drive controller, Rental of Vacuum Truck         
Services for work related leak in Oakland and,   
Repair of truck 259-415.                         
       DIRECTORS OF                              
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
      7 Permits for AT&T Missouri, place         
fiber optic cable by boring and/or trenching     
ordered approved, subject to certain             
conditions as follows: 115439, 5150 Columbia,    
115448, 1820 Shenandoah, 115529, 3864            
Bates, 115528, 4200 Hampton, 115531, 2318        
Washington, 115527, 927 Tyler and, 115381,       
3617 Delmar.                                     
     2 Permits for Charter Communications,       
place fiber optic cable by boring and/or         
trenching ordered approved, subject to certain   
conditions as follows: 115317, 5401 Bulwer       
and, 115532, 3500 Pestalozzi.                    
     2 Permits to place fiber optic cable by     
boring and/or trenching ordered approved,        
subject to certain conditions as follows:        
115530, American Fiber Comm., 2020               
Washington and, 115472, Qwest                    
Communications, 1100 Angelica.                   
    DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                          
 UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
      Application No. 115519, Grace Hill         
Neighborhood, consolidate land at 2125 Bissell   
in C.B. 1820 ordered approved, subject to        
certain conditions.                              
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
UTILITIES, STREETS AND PARKS,                    
 RECREATION AND FORESTRY                         
     Application No. 115535, Veiled Prophet      
Association, hold event July 4, 2009 at Aloe     
Plaza and all Plazas from Tucker to 20th Street  
ordered approved, subject to certain             
conditions.                                      
      DIRECTOR OF STREETS                        
      Draft of the following ordinance ordered   
approved by this Board and Secretary             
instructed to forward same to the Board of       
Aldermen with the recommendation that it be      
 passed:                                          
       "Conditionally vacate South Trudeau        
 from 2nd Street to the east right-of-way line    
 of DeKalb and DeKalb from the north right-       
 of-way line of South Trudeau south 176 feet      
 to the center line of the alleys in City Blocks  
 733 and 735."                                    
      Petition No. 6732, vacate an irregular      
 shaped east/west alley in City Block 2339 as     
 bounded by Monroe, North Florissant,             
 Clinton, 17th Street, Madison and 18th Street    
 ordered filed, petitioner has requested to       
 terminate vacation.                              
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                         
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                      
      11 day care centers ordered approved as     
 follows: 115433, Little Saints Child             
 Development Center, 6080 West Florissant,        
 115478, Kidz of Joy, 6114 West Florissant,       
 114657, Kids First, Inc., 2911 Olive, 115375,    
 Valedictorian Child Care, 5643 Mimika,           
 114723, Garfield Headstart, 4146 Garfield,       
 115161, Rock-Me-Gentle, 2520 University,         
 115398, Land of Oz, 1176 No. Kingshighway,       
 115430, Explorers II DCC, 3007 Olive,            
 115388, Urban League of Metro St. Louis 911      
 Head Start, 911 No. Spring, 115159, CIBC         
 Westend Academy, 543 Walton and, 114826,         
 Family Resource Center, 3309 So.                 
 Kingshighway.                                    
       2 Permits ordered approved as follows:     
 115399, Garrison Care Center, conduct            
 nursing home at 2939 Magazine and, 115489,       
 Mary Ryder Home, conduct residential care        
 facility at 4361 Olive.                          
      Application No. 115563, North City          
 Farmer's Market, operate a Farmers Market        
 at 2718-20 No. 14th Street ordered filed,        
 duplicate application.                           
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                      
       16 Conditional Use Permits ordered         
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,    
 per Board Order No. 766 as follows: 115545,      
 4510 So. Kingshighway, interior and exterior     
 alterations (zoning only) pet services-          
 veterinarian, daycare and boarding business,     
 115546, 6255 Printz, plant, vegetable, fruit     
 growing, flower and tree business (home          
 occupancy waiver), 115547, 4728 Hammett          
 Place, contracting business (home occupancy      
 waiver), 115548, 2907 So. Jefferson used         
 appliance sales, service and used furniture      
 sales business (inside storage-no display),      
 115549, 415 DeBaliviere, office space,           
 115550, 1328 Washington, tattoo parlor and       
 body piercing business, 115551, 5065 Maple,      
 interior remodeling business (home occupancy     
 waiver), 115552, 3215 Potomac, cleaning          
 service (home occupancy waiver), 115553,         
 6011 Louisiana, contracting business (home       
 occupancy waiver), 115554, 5510 Virginia, full
 drink, sit down and carryout restaurant       
 (basement, 1st floor and outside patio),      
 115555, 4701 Washington Place, retail sales   
 (auto accessories and stereo installation     
 business, 115556, 2903 Chippewa, carryout     
 restaurant (amending hours of operation),     
 115557, 8701 Riverview, grocery store and     
 carryout restaurant (no liquor), 115558, 5520 
 Virginia, new and used clothing, jewelry,     
 collectables, art and internet sales business,
 115559, 1911-13 Park, full drink bar,         
 restaurant, retail sale of wine and outdoor   
 seating front and back (amending conditions   
 to allow for outdoor seating property),       
 115560, 2125 Bissell, interior alterations per
 plans (multi purpose bldg. - educational,     
 business incubator, community outreach and    
 food pantry programs).                        
      Agenda Items for June 16, 2009 ordered   
 approved.                                     
      Board adjourned to meet Tuesday, June    
 23, 2009.                                     
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.      
                 President                     
 ATTEST:                                       
                 Cherise D. Thomas             
                 Secretary                     
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                
 The Board of Public Service will hold a public
 hearing on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 in Room     
 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider the   
 following:                                    
       Hearing No. 8112 - Annie Malone         
 Children and Family Service Center, to operate
 a transitional living program at 4221-4221A   
 and 4223-4223A Kennerly.                      
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.      
                 President                     
 ATTEST:                                       
                 Cherise D. Thomas             
                 Secretary                     
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                
       The Board of Public Service will hold a 
 public hearing on Tuesday, July 14, 2009 in   
 Room 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider  
 the following:                                
      Hearing No. 8113 - Self Inflicted        
 Studios, to operate a tattoo parlor at 1428   
 Washington.                                   
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.      
                 President                     
ATTEST:                                          
                Cherise D. Thomas                
                Secretary                        
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      A public hearing will be held by the       
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
Wednesday, July 1, 2009 in Room 208 City         
Hall to consider the following:                  
     APPEAL #9342 - Appeal filed by MER          
Signs, from the determination of the Building    
Commissioner in the denial of a building         
permit authorizing the Appellant to reface one   
illuminated ground sign per plans at 3282        
Jamieson. WARD 23 #AB455355-09                   
ZONE: "F"- Neighborhood Commercial               
District                                         
      APPEAL #9343 - Appeal filed by             
Signcrafters, from the determination of the      
Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
erect one projecting illuminated sign per plans  
at 911 Washington. WARD 7 #AB457807-09           
ZONE: "I"- Central Business District             
      APPEAL #9344 - Appeal filed by             
Carondelet B Team LLC, from the                  
determination of the Building Commissioner       
in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
the Appellant to construct a multiple family     
dwelling (zoning only) per plans at 201 W.       
Steins. WARD 11 #AB456737-09 ZONE:               
"B" - Two Family Dwelling District               
     APPEAL #9309 - Appeal filed by Sedra        
Market, from the determination of the Building   
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy       
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a    
convenience store and deli (no cooking) at 4002  
Shreve. (Deliberation) WARD 21                   
#AO449337-09 ZONE: "B" - Two Family              
Dwelling District                                
      APPEAL #9322 - Appeal filed by             
Broadway Express, from the determination         
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
an occupancy permit authorizing the              
Appellant to operate a carwash business at       
8422-26 N. Broadway. (Deliberation)              
WARD 2 #AO453098-09 ZONE: "F" -                  
Neighborhood Commercial District                 
     APPEAL #9320 - Appeal filed by MCS          
Contracting, from the determination of the       
Building Commissioner in the denial of an        
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant       
to operate a construction office with outside    
storage of trucks/trailer at 7305 Piccadilly.    
(Continuance) WARD 24 #AO452482-09               
ZONE: "A"- Single Family Dwelling                
District                                         
     In accordance with the provisions of        
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
     By authority of the Board of                  
 Adjustment.                                       
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
       A public hearing will be held by the        
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
 Wednesday, July 8, 2009 in Room 208 City          
 Hall to consider the following:                   
      APPEAL #9345 - Appeal filed by Warren        
 Sign Co, from the determination of the Building   
 Commissioner in the denial of a building          
 permit authorizing the Appellant to install one   
 illuminated ground sign per plans at 2105         
 McCausland. WARD 24 #AB457459-09                  
 ZONE: "A"- Single Family Dwelling                 
 District                                          
      APPEAL #9346 - Appeal filed by Nyco          
 Properties LLC, from the determination of         
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to      
 complete interior and exterior alterations for    
 an office on the (1st floor) and a single family  
 dwelling unit on the 2nd floor at 4000 Shaw.      
 WARD 8 #AB457418-09 ZONE: "C"-                    
 Multiple Family Dwelling District                 
       APPEAL #9265 - Appeal filed by South        
 Gravois Detailing Window Tinting, from the        
 determination of the Building Commissioner        
 in the revocation of a use variance and           
 occupancy permit, with conditions,                
 authorizing the Appellant to operate a            
 detailing and window tinting shop at 3210 S.      
 Compton. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 20             
 #AO444978-09 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-                
 hood Commercial District                          
       APPEAL #8249 - Appeal filed by The          
 Inspection Station, from the determination of     
 the Building Commissioner in the revocation       
 of a use variance and occupancy permit, with      
 conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
 operate an auto inspection station at 3655        
 California. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 20          
 #AO293624-03 ZONE: "B" - Two Family               
 Dwelling District                                 
      In accordance with the provisions of         
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
     By authority of the Board of                  
 Adjustment.                                       
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
     A Conditional Use Hearing will be held        
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on             
 Thursday, July 2, 2009, on the following          
 conditional uses:                            
      5415 S. Compton - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - Clean Bee (Cleaning Services -      
 Residential) "B" Two-Family Dwelling         
 District. Te Ward 25                         
      3204 Dodier - Home Occupancy Waiver     
 - Clerk and Sons (Medical Transportation)    
 "B" Two-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward    
 3                                            
      4247 Linton - Home Occupancy Waiver-    
 A & J Contracting (Home Improvement) "B"     
 Two-Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward 3      
     2712 Arlington - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - P-General Contractor (Painting &    
 Drywall) "B" Two-Family Dwelling District.   
 Te Ward 1                                    
      4462 Wilcox - Home Occupancy Waiver     
 - Dustbunny (Janitorial/Cleaning) "A" Single-
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 14         
     5017 Gravois - #AO-457442-09 - Open      
 Air Market 05/01/09 - 12/01/09 Friday -      
 Sunday (Parking Lot) "G" Local Commercial    
 & Office District. Pmg Ward 14               
      5005-07 S. Kingshighway - #AO-          
 457870-09 - Open Air Market (Front of        
 Building) "F" Neighborhood Commercial        
 District. Pmg Ward 14                        
      5622 Delmar - #AO-458153-097 -          
 Adult Daycare-40 Adults M-F 6AM-6PM          
 Suites #101, 102, 103W and Expanding to      
 102E "H" - Area Commercial District. Mv      
 Ward 26                                      
      1823 McLaran - #AO-458324-09 -          
 Grocery Store w/Deli (Cooking Pizzas) No     
 Liquor "F" Neighborhood Commercial           
 District. Mv Ward 27                         
     4628 Morganford - #AO-458406-09 -        
 Full Drink Bar & Coffee Shop "F"             
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Mv         
 Ward 14                                      
      1922-24 Cherokee - #AO-458102-09        
 - Office & Inside Storage (Movie Equipment,  
 Screens, Speakers) "G" Local Commercial      
 and Office District. Pmg Ward 9              
     2523 Newhouse - #AO-458532-09 -          
 Daycare (8) Infants Sunday- Saturday 6:00    
 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. "C" Multiple-Family         
 Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 3                
  PUBLIC NOTICE                               
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held  
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on        
 Thursday, July 9, 2009, on the following     
 conditional uses:                            
      7117 Minnesota - Home Occupancy         
Waiver - Open Sesame St. Louis, LLC (Garage     
Door Installation) "B" Two-Family Dwelling      
District. Mv Ward 11                            
    4133 Page - Home Occupancy Waiver -         
Progressive Building/Maintenance LLC            
(Home Repair) "C" Multiple-Family               
Dwelling District. Te Ward 19                   
    4566 Shenandoah - Home Occupancy            
Waiver - Richard Codd Properties, LLC           
(Property Management) "C" Multiple-             
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 8             
     1129 Penrose - Home Occupancy              
Waiver- New Generation Childcare (Home          
Day Care/10 Children Total/6Days Per Week,      
7am-12am) "F" Neighborhood Commercial           
District. Mv Ward 3                             
     5107 Ridge - Home Occupancy Waiver-        
The Foundations G., Inc. (Rehab &               
Remodeling) "B" Two-Family Dwelling             
District. Te Ward 26                            
     3956 Tholozan - Home Occupancy             
Waiver - A Walk in the Park (Grooming) "A"      
Single-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 15     
     4738 Vernon - Home Occupancy Waiver        
- Wright Now Lawn Care Service (Lawn Care       
Services) "C" Multiple-Family Dwelling          
District. Te Ward 18                            
      5074 Union Blvd - #AO - 455226-09 -       
Daycare 16 Kids Total (4 Infants and 12 2 1/    
2 - 12 Years of Age) 6 a.m. - Midnight/ Sunday  
- Saturday "F" Neighborhood Commercial          
District. Pmg Ward 1                            
     2917 N. Sarah - #AO-457714-09 -            
Mini Market w/ Carryout Restaurant (No          
Liquor) "F" Neighborhood Commercial             
District. Pmg Ward 4                            
     8915H-19 Riverview Drive - #AO -           
459018-09 - Instructional Classes &             
Community Services (Multi Purpose Rooms)        
"F" Neighborhood Commercial District. Te        
Ward 2                                          
     609 Lafayette - #AB - 458202-09 -          
Interior & Exterior Alterations Per Plans       
(Sitdown/Carryout Restaurant w/Drive-           
Through Window)"G" Local Commercial and         
Office District. Bl Ward 7                      
     4315-21 Margaretta - #AB - 444006-         
08 - Expanding Parking Lot Per Plans " B "      
Two-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 21        
INVITATION TO BID                               
 Board of Police Commissioners                  
 Metropolitan Police Department                 
    City of St. Louis, Missouri                 
         462-0000-44 - Dog Food                 
               462-0000-43 -                        
      Veterinary Services (11 canines)              
       Sealed bids of the above will be received    
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
 Department, Office of the Director of              
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
 local time, Friday, July 10, 2009 when they        
 will be opened publicly and announced.             
 Official bid forms on which bids must be           
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of       
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective          
 bidders upon request in person or by               
 telephone during regular business hours.           
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.            
       The Board of Police Commissioners            
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
 reserves the right to consider criteria other      
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
 Among other factors, the Board will consider       
 the location of the business, minority interest    
 in the business, prior performance and the bid     
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
 associated Regulations could apply to the          
 service for which bids are being sought herein.    
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                       
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from Brad Turner,       
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
      Bidders are also advised that the State   
 of Missouri requires workers on all public     
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.    
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the   
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or    
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
 the prevailing rate for any work done under    
 the contract by the contractor or by any       
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).        
 Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid  
 please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.  
 Email must include vendor's company name,      
 address, and description of bid.               
      Brad Turner                               
      Purchasing Agent                          
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                       
 INVITATION TO BID                              
  Board of Police Commissioners                 
  Metropolitan Police Department                
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                
               250-000948 -                     
 Installation of Data/Phone Connections         
       Sealed bids of the above will be received
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police           
 Department, Office of the Director of          
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,       
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.    
 local time, Friday, July 10, 2009 when they    
 will be opened publicly and announced.         
 Official bid forms on which bids must be       
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of   
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective      
 bidders upon request in person or by           
 telephone during regular business hours.       
       Contractor shall not discriminate in     
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,    
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against   
 any employee or applicant for employment       
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national 
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient      
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the       
 contract, and the Board of Police              
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan    
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover 
 any damages resulting from termination.        
       The Board of Police Commissioners        
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also     
 reserves the right to consider criteria other  
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.   
 Among other factors, the Board will consider   
 the location of the business, minority interest
 in the business, prior performance and the bid 
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.  
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.          
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.   
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and         
 associated Regulations could apply to the      
service for which bids are being sought herein.    
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
work pursuant to a contract executed between       
the successful bidder and the City must be         
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
the contract provisions related to the Living      
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
the contract and the imposition of additional      
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
Regulations.                                       
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
are available upon request from Brad Turner,       
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
     Bidders are also advised that the State       
of Missouri requires workers on all public         
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
the prevailing rate for any work done under        
the contract by the contractor or by any           
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid      
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.      
Email must include vendor's company name,          
address, and description of bid.                   
      Brad Turner                                  
      Purchasing Agent                             
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                          
INVITATION TO BID                                  
 Board of Police Commissioners                     
 Metropolitan Police Department                    
    City of St. Louis, Missouri                    
     160-001402 - Flares without Spikes            
      Sealed bids of the above will be received    
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
Department, Office of the Director of              
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
local time, Friday, July 10, 2009 when they        
will be opened publicly and announced.             
Official bid forms on which bids must be           
submitted may be obtained from the Office of       
the Director of Purchasing by prospective          
bidders upon request in person or by               
telephone during regular business hours.           
     Contractor shall not discriminate in          
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.            
       The Board of Police Commissioners            
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
 reserves the right to consider criteria other      
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
 Among other factors, the Board will consider       
 the location of the business, minority interest    
 in the business, prior performance and the bid     
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
 associated Regulations could apply to the          
 service for which bids are being sought herein.    
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                       
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from Brad Turner,       
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
      Bidders are also advised that the State       
 of Missouri requires workers on all public         
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
 the prevailing rate for any work done under        
 the contract by the contractor or by any           
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
 Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid      
 please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.      
 Email must include vendor's company name,          
 address, and description of bid.                   
      Brad Turner                                   
      Purchasing Agent                              
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                           
     CITY OF ST. LOUIS                            
    LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                             
 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                         
    Solicitation For Bids for                     
         FULL SERVICE                             
   VEHICLE CLEANING SERVICES                      
        SEALED BIDS WANTED                        
      Sealed Bids will be received at Lambert     
 St. Louis International Airport(R), Airport      
 Properties Division, 10701 Lambert               
 International Drive, MTN 2501, St. Louis,        
 Missouri 63145 until 2:00 p.m., July 14,         
 2009, at which time the bids will be publicly    
 opened and read.                                 
       Bidding documents may be obtained at       
 Lambert St. Louis International Airport(R),      
 Airport Properties Division, 10701               
 Lambert International Drive, MTN 2501,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63145, Monday through        
 Friday between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and        
 5:00 p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8031. This    
 Solicitation For Bids may be obtained by         
 visiting our website at www.flystl.com (Click    
 on "Business").                                  
      Robert Salarano                             
      Airport Properties Division Manager         
 DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  PERSONNEL                                       
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                       
      The City of St. Louis, Department of        
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,         
 announces competitive Civil Service              
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal  
 Service.                                         
       The last date for filing an application for
 the following examination is JULY 10, 2009,      
     MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER                        
             Prom./O.C. 1622                      
 $41,730 to $62,088 (Annual Salary Range)         
       The last date for filing an application for
 the following examination is JULY 17, 2009,      
     ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR                        
             Prom./O.C. 1621                      
 $47,814 to $71,266 (Annual Salary Range)         
       Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social    
 Security, and Employee Retirement System         
 Benefits privileges are provided in addition to  
 salary.                                          
      Application forms and further               
information concerning duties of positions,       
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative  
weights of examination components, and            
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the  
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114       
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO             
63101. Applications can be submitted on the       
Internet. Visit the city web site at              
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with         
the City.                                         
                 Richard R. Frank ,               
                 Director                         
June 17, 2009                                     
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                             
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any             
individual or company who performs work           
within the City limits must obtain a Business     
License. This would also apply to businesses      
who employ sales or delivery personnel to         
come into the City. Contracts requiring work      
to be performed in the City will NOT be           
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                 
Please contact the License Collector,             
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,          
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may            
also refer to our on-line site at                 
www.stlouiscity.com.                              
ST. LOUIS LIVING                                  
WAGE ORDINANCE                                    
  LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                        
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that      
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597        
and associated Regulations apply to the           
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
contract executed between the successful          
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
adjusted during the term of the contract          
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
[proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
to submit this Declaration with the bid           
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
[proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
[proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
provisions related to the Living Wage             
Ordinance may result in termination of the        
contract and the imposition of additional         
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
 Regulations.                                      
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from La Queta          
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be      
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living           
 wage.                                             
    SUPPLY                                         
 COMMISSIONER                                      
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,                
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,          
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,               
 June 23, 2009 - ADVERTISED BIDS will              
 be received by the undersigned to be opened       
 at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the      
 items listed below on the dates specified.        
        TUESDAY, JULY 14, 2009                     
         LAMPS & BALLASTS                          
 for 3 years from November 29, 2009.               
         Notice to All Suppliers                   
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of       
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business  
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with       
 employment practices that are in accordance       
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis      
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated       
 there-under to the end that all Contractors       
 and suppliers of materials and services will      
 offer equal opportunity for employment and        
 job advancement to blacks and other minority      
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.        
             Requesting a Bid                      
       To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,       
 please contact the Supply Commissioner's          
 office at (314) 622-4580.                         
       Bidders are invited to be present at the    
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available     
 30 days following the date of bid opening.        
 If you desire bid results, please include a       
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.     
      The City of St. Louis desires to             
 purchase recycled products whenever               
 possible, especially items containing post        
 consumer waste materials. If your company         
 can supply recycled products, please provide      
 information to this office.                       
             Surplus Property                      
      Notice is hereby given that the City of      
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale      
 during the course of the year. The property       
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the       
 City Journal.                                     
      The right to reject any and all bids is
 reserved.                                   
                Freddie L. Dunlap            
                Supply Commissioner          
                (314) 622-4580               
                www.stlouis.missouri.org     
