       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2009-2010                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
    Friday, January 29, 2010.     
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen        
 Chambers January 29, 2010.                     
      The roll was called and the following     
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,      
 Flowers, Moore, Ford-Griffin, Triplett,        
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,        
 Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,    
 Davis, Schmid, French, Vaccaro, Waterhouse,    
 Cohn, Williamson, Carter and President Reed.   
 24                                             
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,   
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations    
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."          
     ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                        
    SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                    
      None.                                     
           INTRODUCTION OF                      
           HONORED GUESTS                       
      None.                                     
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                      
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                      
     Mr. Roddy moved to approve the             
 minutes for January 15, 2010.                  
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                    
         Report of the Clerk                    
     of the Board of Aldermen                   
      To the President of the Board of          
 Aldermen:                                      
      I wish to report that on the 29 th of     
 January, 2010, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following       
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally  
adopted.                                           
            Board Bill No. 74                      
            (Floor Substitute)                     
     An ordinance pertaining to a City Health      
Insurance Committee; amending Section Three        
of Ordinance 68284, approved March 9, 2009,        
pertaining to the composition of the City          
Health Insurance Committee.                        
           Board Bill No. 263                      
      An ordinance recommended by the              
Airport Commission and the Board of                
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing and         
directing the Director of Airports and the         
Comptroller of the City of St. Louis ("St.         
Louis") to enter into and execute on behalf of     
St. Louis a Development Agreement AL-479           
substantially in the form as set out in            
ATTACHMENT "1" to this Ordinance                   
("Development Agreement"), which is                
attached hereto and incorporated herein,           
between St. Louis, the owner and operator of       
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)         
("Airport"), which is located in St. Louis         
County, Missouri, and Aero St. Louis, LLC, a       
limited liability company organized and            
existing under the laws of the State of            
Delaware ("Aero"), granting to Aero the            
exclusive right to develop in phases certain       
real property located in St. Louis County (the     
"Premises") consisting of approximately            
75.99 acres and improvements thereon               
commonly known as the "Northern Tract",            
which is more fully described in Section 1 and     
EXHIBITS "B" and "C" of the Development            
Agreement, and to perform all operations and       
functions that are incidental or necessary to      
such development subject to and in accordance      
with the provisions of the Development             
Agreement; authorizing and directing the           
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of        
St. Louis, with the approval of the Airport        
Commission and the Board of Estimate and           
Apportionment, to enter into and execute, on       
behalf of St. Louis in accordance with the         
terms of the Development Agreement, lease          
agreements from time to time with Aero for         
each phase of the development of the Premises      
under the Development Agreement,                   
substantially in the form as set out in            
EXHIBIT "G" to the Development Agreement           
entitled "Prototype Lease Agreement",              
granting to Aero, subject to the provisions of     
the Prototype Lease Agreement, the right and       
privilege to occupy and use the "Leased            
Premises" as defined therein, to demolish any      
existing improvements that are not retained        
improvements, and to construct, repair or          
make new improvements, for an initial term         
expiring on the thirty (30) year anniversary       
of the "Completion Date", unless extended          
 by Aero under the two (2) additional five (5)      
 year renewal terms, in accordance with             
 Sections 301 and 302 of the Prototype Lease        
 Agreement; authorizing the Director of             
 Airports, on behalf of St. Louis, to enter into    
 and execute agreements or permits with Aero        
 or any sublessees of Aero providing for the        
 collection and payment of Airport fees and         
 charges and/or other operating requirements,       
 as contemplated and provided for in Section        
 407 of the Prototype Lease Agreement;              
 authorizing the Mayor, the Comptroller, the        
 Register, the City Counselor, the Director of      
 Airports, and other appropriate officers,          
 agents, and employees of St. Louis, with the       
 advice of the Director of Airports, to enter       
 into and execute on behalf of St. Louis and in     
 St. Louis' best interest any attendant or related  
 documents, agreements, permits, amendments,        
 affidavits, certifications, or instruments         
 deemed necessary to effectuate the terms set       
 forth in the Development Agreement, the            
 Prototype Lease Agreement, and/or deemed           
 necessary to preserve and protect St. Louis'       
 interest, and/or to take such actions as may be    
 necessary or appropriate in connection with        
 the consummation of the transactions               
 contemplated herein; providing that the            
 provisions set forth in this Ordinance shall be    
 applicable exclusively to the agreements,          
 documents, permits, affidavits, certifications,    
 and instruments approved, contemplated, and/       
 or authorized by this Ordinance; and               
 containing severability and emergency clauses.     
            Board Bill No. 264                      
      An ordinance recommended and                  
 approved by the Airport Commission and the         
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,               
 authorizing and directing the Mayor and the        
 Comptroller on behalf of the City of St. Louis     
 (the "City") the owner and operator of             
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the    
 "Airport") to accept and execute on behalf of      
 the City a certain grant agreement offered by      
 the Missouri Highways and Transportation           
 Commission (the "Grant Agreement") for the         
 development of air service improvements at         
 the Airport for a maximum obligation of Eight      
 Hundred Twenty-Three Thousand Five                 
 Hundred Dollars ($823,500) for the                 
 reimbursement of direct costs associated with      
 the projects funded under the Grant                
 Agreement; and containing an emergency             
 clause.                                            
            Board Bill No. 266                      
      An Ordinance recommended and                  
 approved by the Board of Estimate and              
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the        
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of        
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter        
 into and execute on behalf of the City the         
 "First Amendment To Lambert-St. Louis              
 International Airports(R) (the "Airport")       
 Concession         Agreement            (Public 
 Communications Services)" (the "First           
 Amendment") to the Airport Public               
 Communications Services Concession              
 Agreement AL-434, dated December 16,            
 2008, between the City and Power Station        
 LLC (the "Concessionaire"), a corporation       
 organized and existing under the laws of the    
 State of Nevada, and authorized by City         
 Ordinance No. 68179, approved November          
 24, 2008 (the "Agreement"); the First           
 Amendment, which is attached hereto as          
 ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereto,          
 was approved by the City's Airport              
 Commission, and its terms are more fully        
 described in Section One of this Ordinance;     
 containing a severability clause; and containing
 an emergency clause.                            
           Board Bill No. 251                    
         (Committee Substitute)                  
       An ordinance pertaining to failure to take
 out a license in the City of St. Louis; amending
 subsection 8.02.170 of the Revised Code of      
 the City of St. Louis, pertaining to failure to 
 take out license; containing an emergency       
 clause.                                         
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                    
      Board of Aldermen                          
           Office of the Mayor                   
      None.                                      
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                      
      None.                                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
 None.                                           
            BOARD BILLS FOR                      
             THIRD READING                       
         - INFORMAL CALENDAR                     
      None.                                      
              RESOLUTIONS                        
         - INFORMAL CALENDAR                     
      None.                                      
            FIRST READING                        
            OF BOARD BILLS                       
 Board Member Schmid introduced by               
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 299                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated December 15,       
 2009 for the 3200 Miami St. Redevelopment       
 Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")    
 after finding that said Redevelopment Area      
 ("Area") is blighted as defined in Section      
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,     
 as amended (the "Statute" being Sections        
 99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as             
amended); containing a description of the         
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
amended; finding that there is a feasible         
financial plan for the redevelopment of the       
Area which affords maximum opportunity for        
redevelopment of the Area by private              
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area  
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for         
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and       
politic created under Missouri law, through       
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that      
none of the property within the Area is           
occupied, but if it should become occupied        
the Redeveloper(s) (as defined herein) shall      
be responsible for providing relocation           
assistance pursuant to the Plan to any eligible   
occupants displaced as a result of                
implementation of the Plan; finding that          
financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
various officials, departments, boards and        
agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
exercise their respective powers in a manner      
consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
severability clause.                              
Board Member Conway introduced by                 
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 300                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated January 19,          
2010 for the 4104-06 Flad Ave. Redevelopment      
Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")      
after finding that said Redevelopment Area        
("Area") is blighted as defined in Section        
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
as amended (the "Statute" being Sections          
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as               
amended); containing a description of the         
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
amended; finding that there is a feasible         
financial plan for the redevelopment of the       
 Area which affords maximum opportunity for        
 redevelopment of the Area by private              
 enterprise; finding that no property in the Area  
 may be acquired by the Land Clearance for         
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
 Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and       
 politic created under Missouri law, through       
 the exercise of eminent domain; finding that      
 none of the property within the Area is           
 occupied, but if it should become occupied        
 the Redeveloper(s) (as defined herein) shall      
 be responsible for providing relocation           
 assistance pursuant to the Plan to any eligible   
 occupants displaced as a result of                
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 up to a five (5) year real estate tax abatement;  
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
 various officials, departments, boards and        
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
 exercise their respective powers in a manner      
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
 severability clause.                              
 Board Member Williamson introduced by             
 request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 301                     
       An ordinance approving a blighting study    
 and redevelopment plan dated September 23,        
 2008 for the 5235 Page Blvd. Redevelopment        
 Area ("Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
 Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended (the       
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
 inclusive, as amended); containing a              
 description of the boundaries of the Area in      
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
 of the Area is in the interest of the public      
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
 the people of the City; approving the Plan        
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430;       
 finding that there is a feasible financial plan   
 for the development of the Area which affords     
 maximum opportunity for development of the        
 Area by private enterprise; finding that no       
 property in the Area may be acquired by the       
 Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority        
 ("LCRA") of the City of St. Louis, a public       
 body corporate and politic created under          
 Missouri law, through the exercise of eminent     
 domain; finding that none of the property         
 within the Area is occupied, but if should        
 become occupied the Redeveloper shall be          
 responsible for relocating any eligible           
 occupants displaced as a result of                
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to fifteen (15) year real estate tax         
 abatement; and pledging cooperation of this     
 St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board") and       
 requesting various officials, departments,      
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate    
 and to exercise their respective powers in a    
 manner consistent with the Plan.                
 Board Member French introduced by               
 request:                                        
            Board Bill No. 302                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated December 15,       
 2009 for the 4101-43 and 4134-40 N.             
 Newstead Ave. & 4406 Lee Ave.                   
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
 description of the boundaries of the Area in    
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto 
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",      
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation   
 of the Area is in the interest of the public    
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of   
 the people of the City; approving the Plan      
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430      
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a       
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment   
 of the Area which affords maximum               
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
 by private enterprise; finding that no property 
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land         
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the    
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body       
 corporate and politic created under Missouri    
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;    
 finding that none of the property within the    
 Area is occupied, but if it should become       
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined         
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis      
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting      
 various officials, departments, boards and      
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to        
 exercise their respective powers in a manner    
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a      
 severability clause.                            
 REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                     
       BOARD BILLS                             
         Convention and Tourism                
                  None.                        
    Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions         
                  None.                        
        Health and Human Services              
                  None.                        
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning            
               None.                           
         Intergovernmental Affairs             
                   None.                       
                 Legislation                   
                   None.                       
       Neighborhood Development                
    Board Bills No. 299, 300, 301 and 302.     
     Parks and Environmental Matters           
                  None.                        
       Personnel and Administration            
                  None.                        
             Public Employees                  
                   None.                       
               Public Safety                   
                  None.                        
               Public Utilities                
                   None.                       
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse            
                   None.                       
      Transportation and Commerce              
                  None.                        
              Ways and Means                   
                  None.                        
SECOND READING AND REPORT                      
  OF STANDING COMMITTEES                       
    Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways        
and Means submitted the following report       
which was read.                                
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,       
January 29, 2010.                              
     To the President of the Board of          
Aldermen:                                      
     The Committee on Ways and Means to        
whom was referred the following Board Bills,   
report that they have considered the same and  
recommend adoption.                            
                Board Bill No. 275             
     An ordinance authorizing and directing    
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.   
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in       
consideration of the sum of Eight Hundred      
Twenty Dollars ($820.00) and other good and    
valuable consideration, a Quit Claim Deed to   
remise, release and forever quit-claim unto    
Glenmark Industries Inc., certain City-owned   
property located in City Block 4220, which     
property is known as 543 Calvary Avenue,       
containing 2,000 square feet, more or less.    
            Board Bill No. 292                    
      An Ordinance authorizing and directing      
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis to execute a Purchase and Sale             
 Agreement and Quit Claim Deed to the             
 Washington University for certain city-owned     
 property located in City Block 4854, which       
 property is known as Lot 1, containing .42       
 acres more or less, upon receipt of and in       
 consideration of the sum of Ninety Five          
 Thousand Dollars ($95,000.00), and               
 containing an emergency clause.                  
      Alderman Conway                             
      Chairman of the Committee                   
       Mr. Wessels of the Committee on            
 Housing, Urban Development and Zoning            
 submitted the following report which was         
 read.                                            
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
 January 29, 2010.                                
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
       The Committee on Housing, Urban            
 Development and Zoning to whom was               
 referred the following Board Bills, report that  
 they have considered the same and recommend      
 adoption.                                        
            Board Bill No. 255                    
       An ordinance approving a blighting study   
 and redevelopment plan dated November 17,        
 2009 for the Olive St./15th St./Chestnut St./    
 17th St. Redevelopment Area (as further          
 defined herein, the "Plan") after finding that   
 said Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted     
 as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised      
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the            
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
 description of the boundaries of the Area in     
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto  
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",       
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation    
 of the Area is in the interest of the public     
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of    
 the people of the City; approving the Plan       
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430       
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a        
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment    
 of the Area which affords maximum                
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area        
 by private enterprise; finding that no property  
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land          
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the     
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body        
 corporate and politic created under Missouri     
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;     
 finding that some of the property within the     
 Area is occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as     
 defined herein) shall be responsible for         
 providing relocation assistance pursuant to   
 the Plan to any eligible occupants displaced  
 as a result of implementation of the Plan;    
 finding that financial aid may be necessary to
 enable the Area to be redeveloped in          
 accordance with the Plan; finding that there  
 shall be available up to a ten (10) year real 
 estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation
 of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board") 
 and requesting various officials, departments,
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate  
 and to exercise their respective powers in a  
 manner consistent with the Plan; and          
 containing a severability clause.             
           Board Bill No. 267                  
      An Ordinance recommended by the          
 Planning Commission on December 2, 2009,      
 to change the zoning of property as indicated 
 on the District Map, from "B" Two-Family      
 Dwelling District to the "C" Multiple-Family  
 Dwelling District, in City Block 4530 (1617   
 Burd, 5578 Cote Brilliante, and 1526, 1530,   
 1602, 1610, 1614, 1620, 1622 Clara), so as to 
 include the described parcels of land in City 
 Block 4530; and containing an emergency       
 clause.                                       
      Alderman Wessels                         
      Chairman of the Committee                
      Ms. Young of the Committee on Public     
 Safety submitted the following report which   
 was read.                                     
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,      
 January 29, 2010.                             
      To the President of the Board of         
 Aldermen:                                     
      The Committee on Public Safety to        
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,  
 report that they have considered the same and 
 recommend adoption.                           
          Board Bill No. 283                   
        (Committee Substitute)                 
       An Ordinance pertaining to bathhouses;  
 amending Section 1 of Ordinance 57071,        
 approved November 18, 1975 codified in        
 Section 8.24.040 of the Revised Code of the   
 City of St. Louis pertaining to a neighborhood
 consent petition and containing a severability
 and emergency clause.                         
          Board Bill No. 285                   
        (Committee Substitute)                 
      An Ordinance pertaining to tattoo        
 parlors; amending a portion of Section 1 of   
 Ordinance 57404, approved August 2, 1997,     
 codified in Section 8.97.040 of the Revised   
 Code of the City of St. Louis pertaining to a 
 neighborhood consent petition and containing  
 a severability and emergency clause.          
          Board Bill No. 293                    
        (Committee Substitute)                  
     An Ordinance pertaining to rooming         
houses, boarding houses, dormitories or         
hotels; amending Section 903.1 of Chapter       
25.32.480 of the Revised Code of the City of    
St. Louis pertaining to application and         
neighborhood consent petition and containing    
a severability and emergency clause.            
     Alderwoman Young                           
     Chairman of the Committee                  
            REPORT OF                           
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                      
     None.                                      
           PERFECTION                           
        CONSENT CALENDAR                        
      Mr. Roddy moved that the following        
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,    
be perfected as reported out of Committee       
with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board        
Bills No. 265, 286, 274, 280 and 281.           
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
     None.                                      
          THIRD READING                         
        CONSENT CALENDAR                        
      None.                                     
  THIRD READING, REPORT OF                      
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                       
     AND FINAL PASSAGE                          
       OF BOARD BILLS                           
None.                                           
        REPORT OF THE                           
    ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        
     None.                                      
    COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
      CONSENT CALENDAR                          
      President Reed introduced Resolutions     
No. 268 through 273 and the Clerk was           
instructed to read same.                        
          Resolution No. 268                    
   Mrs. Dorothy Person Johnson                  
     WHEREAS, Mrs. Dorothy Person               
Johnson, a retired St. Louis Public School      
Teacher, will celebrate her 101st birthday on   
Thursday, January 28, 2010; and                 
     WHEREAS, Mrs. Johnson resides at           
5852 Pamplin, 63147, with her daughter, also    
named Dorothy; and                              
     WHEREAS, she is the last survivor of 9     
children, all born in St. Louis; and            
      WHEREAS, her father was one of the        
original trustees of Lane Tabernacle Methodist  
 Church, which is one of the oldest African       
 American churches in the St. Louis area; and     
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Dorothy Person                
 Johnson is an accomplished musician and was      
 Organist for Lane Tabernacle for 25 years;       
 and                                              
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Johnson is very alert         
 and interesting to talk with. She is a graduate  
 of Stowe Teachers College which is now           
 Harris-Stowe State University; and               
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Dorothy Person                
 Johnson is the great aunt of Allan Person and    
 Adria Person Hamilton.                           
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize to the birthday of    
 Mrs. Dorothy Person Johnson and we further       
 direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy  
 of this Resolution across the minutes of these   
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that it may be presented to      
 our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010      
 by:                                              
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward  
           Resolution No. 269                     
    Emeritus Reverend Cleo King                   
      WHEREAS, Emeritus Reverend Cleo             
 King was born on December 17, 1929 in West       
 Point, Mississippi to Jasper and Mary Randel     
 King. Both parents, five brothers, John,         
 Willie, Eddie, Curtis and Moses; one sister,     
 Mable G. Brown, and one grandson,                
 Christopher T. King preceded him in death;       
 and                                              
      WHEREAS, he was baptized at an early        
 age and attended school in Mississippi. Cleo     
 joined the U.S. Army and served in the Korean    
 War and was honorably discharged in 1952.        
 Reverend King received his Master's in           
 Christian Behavior in the New Word               
 Theological Seminary in June of 1994; and        
      WHEREAS, in 1952, he married Annie          
 Bell Rice, who preceded him in death. To this    
 union two children were born, Damita and         
 Fernandez. He had two other children, Alvin      
 and Harriet; and                                 
      WHEREAS, in 1963, Cleo met and              
 married Ms. Earlie B. Johnson. To this union     
 four children were born, DeFreitas, Ogreita,     
 Everett and Angela; and                          
      WHEREAS, Reverend King worked for           
 the U.S. Postal Service for 35 years and as a    
 Security Guard for Kroger for many years.        
 He was a member of Union Tabernacle M.B.         
 Church under the leadership of Reverend A.       
 Springfield until his death; and                 
       WHEREAS, Reverend Cleo King was            
 crowned and served as a deacon for many years    
 until he accepted his calling to the ministry on 
 July 13, 1975, where he received his preacher's  
 license and a certificate as an ordained minister
 on April 17, 1977; and                           
      WHEREAS, Pastor King became the             
 pastor of the Hopewell M.B. Church in East       
 St. Louis, Illinois in 1979. After leaving       
 Hopewell, he was lead by God to organize         
 Siloam M.B. Church with his wife, four           
 youngest children and Reverend and Sister        
 John Bridgeforth; and                            
       WHEREAS, Reverend King opened the          
 church doors every Sunday night to help          
 ministers preach God's word. Reverend King       
 was known for starting on time and willing to    
 help out. Reverend King was a member of the      
 St. Louis Minister Alliance, where he was the    
 financial secretary and then became the          
 President. He also was a member of the St.       
 Louis Pastor's Conference for many years         
 where he was the financial secretary for         
 Berean House; and                                
       WHEREAS, Emeritus King served as           
 Pastor of Siloam for twenty-five years until     
 his health failed. Under his leadership, three   
 deacons were crowned and four ministers were     
 born and ordained. He received certificates in   
 Best 1-V Christ Centered Counseling (Urge        
 Control) January 14, 1993, and Best 1-11         
 Advanced Interactional Strategies August 17,     
 1991; and                                        
       WHEREAS, Pastor King departed this         
 life on January 13, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. He        
 leaves to cherish his memories: his loving       
 wife for 46 years, Mrs. Earline King; three      
 sons, Fernandez (Cereatha) of Arlington,         
 Texas, Alvin Higginbottom and Pastor Everett     
 (Michelle); five daughters, Damita, Harriet,     
 DeFreitas, Ogreita and Angela (Reverend          
 Charles, Jr.) Jones; three brothers, William     
 (Sally), Morise (Mary) and Robert King; one      
 sister, Ruby King of Chicago, Illinois; 14       
 grandchildren: Andre (Marni), Lashawna,          
 India, Antwon, Jordan, Christian (Henry)         
 McCulley, Erica, Natasha, Jazmine, Charnelle,    
 Chasidy, Omina, Malik and Precious; 9 great-     
 grandchildren; the Siloam Church family and      
 a host of sister-in-laws, brother-in-laws,       
 nieces, nephews, cousins and friends.            
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to           
 remember the many contributions of Emeritus      
 Reverend Cleo King to the citizens of the City   
 of St. Louis and we join with his many friends   
 in expressing our sorrow at his passing, and     
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to      
spread a copy of this Resolution across the       
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a     
memorial copy for presentation to the King        
family, at a time and place deemed appropriate    
by the Sponsor.                                   
Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010       
by:                                               
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward      
          Resolution No. 270                      
         The J.U.I.C.E. Project                   
     WHEREAS, Dr. Angie Beatty, PhD and           
Mr. Shawn McKie Sr. opened the doors of           
The J.U.I.C.E. Project at 3003 Arsenal Street     
in December of 2008, in the Tower Grove           
East neighborhood; and                            
     WHEREAS, the J.U.I.C.E. Project is a         
hybrid social enterprise, which re-imagines the   
corner store concept into a healthy "hot spot,"   
making healthy food choices accessible in         
terms of cost and location; and                   
      WHEREAS, the J.U.I.C.E. Project does        
not sell alcohol, tobacco, junk food, or lottery  
tickets; and                                      
       WHEREAS, the J.U.I.C.E. Project uses       
art to help youth in the community understand     
how healthy food, physical activity, and          
behaviors such as alcohol and tobacco use and     
heavy television consumption, impact their        
physical and mental health, and                   
     WHEREAS, the J.U.I.C.E. Project was          
among a thousand organizations to apply for       
the ECHOING GREEN 2009 social                     
entrepreneur fellowship; and                      
     WHEREAS, the Echoing Green is an             
organization that identifies and assists some     
of the world's best emerging social               
entrepreneurs who are launching new high-         
impact organizations. Through their               
fellowship program, they support community        
visionaries as they develop new solutions to      
society's toughest problems; and                  
     WHEREAS, Echoing Green was                   
founded by the leadership of the private equity   
firm General Atlantic in 1987; and                
      WHEREAS, on June 15, 2009, it was           
announced that the J.U.I.C.E. Project is among    
the fourteen new initiatives to be fueled by      
the 2009 Echoing Green Fellowships, and will      
be provided up to $90,000 over two years,         
plus comprehensive technical assistance,          
consulting support, and other administrative      
benefits; and                                     
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
deliberations to recognize the J.U.I.C.E.         
Project for its achievement and commitment        
 to the citizens of the City of St. Louis and we   
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
 of these proceedings and to prepare a             
 commemorative copy to the end that it may         
 be presented to our honoree at a time and         
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.          
 Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010       
 by:                                               
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard  
           Resolution No. 271                      
           Dr. James E. Galvin                     
      WHEREAS, Dr. James E. Galvin                 
 received his Bachelor of Arts degree in           
 Chemistry from New York University in             
 1986, his Masters of Science in Nutrition from    
 Rutgers University in 1988, his Medical           
 Degree from the University of Medicine and        
 Dentistry of New Jersey in 1992 and his           
 Masters of Public Health from St Louis            
 University in 2004; and                           
       WHEREAS, following his medical              
 internship, he trained in Neurology at Thomas     
 Jefferson University in Philadelphia (1993-       
 1995) and served as Chief Neurology Resident      
 at Medical College of Pennsylvania/               
 Hahnemann University (1995-1996). After           
 completing his residency, Dr Galvin served as     
 an NINDS fellow in Neurologic Rehabilitation      
 at the University of Pennsylvania (1996-1997)     
 and completed post-doctoral training at the       
 Center for Neurodegenerative Disease              
 Research in the Department of Pathology and       
 Laboratory Medicine under the direction of        
 John Q. Trojanowski MD, PhD and Virginia          
 M-Y Lee, PhD. During this time he joined          
 the faculty of MCP Hahnemann as an                
 Assistant Professor and was the Director of       
 Ambulatory Neurology and a member of the          
 Dementia and Memory Disorders center; and         
       WHEREAS, Dr. Galvin joined the              
 faculty of Washington University in July 2000.    
 He currently serves as the Director of the        
 Memory Diagnostic Center and Alzheimer            
 Treatment Unit at Washington University, as       
 well as Director of Education and Community       
 Outreach and Associate Clinical Core Leader       
 for the Alzheimer Disease Research Center.        
 Dr Galvin is a member of the Steering             
 Committee the Harvey A Friedman Center for        
 Aging at Washington University. He is on the      
 Board of Directors for the Lewy Body              
 Dementia Association and is on the Scientific     
 Advisory Council for the American Federation      
 for Aging Research. He has been recognized        
 for his research efforts and excellence in        
 Geriatric Neurology and Psychiatry by             
 Washington University and the American            
 Academy of Neurology. Dr. Galvin is on the        
 board at the Monsanto Family YMCA; and            
       WHEREAS, Dr. Galvin is committed to       
 increasing the awareness of Alzheimer's disease 
 in the community and has made presentations     
 at key organizations such as, the NAACP;        
 Saint Louis Public Schools Retired Teachers     
 and Employees; Monsanto Family YMCA;            
 executive board of the Eccleastical Jurisdiction
 of Eastern Missouri/Western Illinois; the       
 Schlafly, Julia Davis, Baden, Machacek and      
 Buder Public Libraries; Boeing Corporation,     
 Federation of Block Units and Saint Louis       
 Clergy Coalition; and                           
      WHEREAS, he has served as an ad hoc        
 reviewer for the National Institute of Health   
 (NIH) and numerous clinical and scientific      
 journals. He is on the editorial board for 3    
 medical journals. He has published over 60      
 scientific papers covering basic, clinical and  
 translational science in the area of            
 neurodegenerative disorders, dementia and       
 cognitive aging, is the editor of 3 textbooks on
 dementia and leads numerous clinical trials     
 investigating new therapeutics for Alzheimer    
 disease and related disorders. His research is  
 funded by the NIH, American Federation for      
 Aging Research, Longer Life Foundation, and     
 the Alzheimer Association; and                  
       WHEREAS, as of March 1, 2010, Dr.         
 Galvin will leave Washington University         
 School of Medicine to assume his new            
 positions at New York University School of      
 Medicine. He will join NYU as a full Professor  
 in Neurology and Psychiatry and become the      
 Director of Clinical Operations in NYU's        
 Center for Excellence for Brain Aging and       
 Dementia. Dr. Galvin will also direct the Pearl 
 Barlow Memory Evaluation and Treatment          
 Center and will become the Associate Director   
 for the Alzheimer's Disease Center.             
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberation to recognize the many              
 achievements of Dr. James E. Galvin and we      
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a commemorative copy to the end that it may     
 be presented to our honoree at a time and       
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010     
 by:                                             
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward       
           Resolution No. 272                    
             Reverend Doctor                     
          Isaac Charles Peay, Sr.                
       WHEREAS, this honorable Board of          
 Aldermen of the City of St. Louis has been      
 apprised of the more than 37 years of the       
 faithful and dedicated service of Reverend,     
 Doctor Isaac Charles Peay, Sr. to the Galilee   
 Baptist Church family and all of St. Louis;     
 and                                             
     WHEREAS, Reverend Peay was pastor             
of Galilee Baptist Church from January 4,          
1954 until his retirement on August 11, 1991       
and while pastor, he held Sunday evening           
services that were broadcast over the radio on     
KATZ and also served as the president of           
Ministers Conference of the City of St. Louis      
and National Baptist Convention, Inc.; and         
     WHEREAS, Galilee Church is located            
at 4300 Delmar Boulevard which is at the           
corner of Delmar and Pendleton in the 18th         
Ward; and                                          
      WHEREAS, Reverend Peay made many             
noteworthy accomplishments while the               
pastor of Galilee that are too numerous to be      
completely outlined this document and              
includes, but is not limited to, acquiring a next  
door building for the church's educational         
building that included a full kitchen used by      
many church and neighborhood associations;         
the purchase and erection of two new church        
signs; the acquisition of a lot at Pendleton and   
Washington for additional church parking and       
a children's playground; the purchase of a         
church water cooler placed in the vestibule;       
the acquisition of a small building for a youth    
gym used by church and area youth; and the         
acquisition of a 48 passenger church bus; and      
      WHEREAS, under Reverend Peay's               
leadership Galilee became an anchor and            
beacon to the St. Louis community and with         
his vision acquired over 400 Baptist hymnals       
placed on the back of every pew; additional        
choir song books; bibles for the Sunday School     
and B.T.U. Department; a new Hammond               
Organ; two new pianos; stain glass windows         
for the sanctuary; new pulpit furniture and a      
new communion set and table; and                   
      WHEREAS, Reverend Peay always                
maintained a keen concern and interest in the      
well being of the Galilee Church family and        
with this in mind pushed to acquire central air    
conditioning at a time when many churches          
cooled themselves with large commercial fans       
and hand held ones; and                            
      WHEREAS, deeply concerned for our            
youth, Dr. Peay organized a youth drum and         
bugle corps and became one of the founders         
of Operation Brightside that provides jobs         
for area youth throughout the summer months        
which he was honored for by former Mayor           
Vincent E. Schoemehl when Schoelmehl               
proclaimed March 21, 1998 as Isaac Charles         
Peay Day in the City of St. Louis; and             
     WHEREAS, over the years Reverend              
Peay helped to establish many programs for         
assistance to the needy and involved the           
church and himself in many community efforts       
and opened the doors of the church to many         
civic and community functions including            
 meetings related to civil rights organizing,     
 community betterment, the ending of              
 discrimination and neighborhood efforts; and     
      WHEREAS, throughout the years as            
 pastor of Galilee Reverend Peay had a            
 supportive wife, Sister Velma Peay, and          
 family that helped to make Rev. Peay an          
 outstanding leader and an achiever for our       
 community.                                       
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize the over 37 years     
 of dedicated service to the Galilee Baptist      
 Church Family and his efforts toward the         
 betterment of the entire City of St. Louis and   
 through this resolution recognize his great      
 work toward improving St. Louis and the          
 quality of life of it's citizens and we further  
 direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a       
 copy of this Resolution across the minutes of    
 these proceedings and to prepare a               
 commemorative copy for presentation to the       
 honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate   
 by the Sponsor.                                  
 Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010      
 by:                                              
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward        
           Resolution No. 273                     
      100 Year Anniversary of the                 
   Society of St. Vincent de Paul at              
   St. Margaret of Scotland Parish                
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that        
 a group of Roman Catholic laymen who were        
 members of the then-newly formed Catholic        
 Parish of St. Margaret of Scotland in the Shaw   
 Neighborhood established a Conference of the     
 Society of St. Vincent de Paul on Feb. 21,       
 1910; and                                        
       WHEREAS, for the past 100 years this       
 independent, all-volunteer group of Catholic     
 lay men, joined in recent years by lay women,    
 have reached out in charity and compassion       
 to thousands of persons in the immediate         
 neighborhood providing, among other things,      
 financial assistance for rent and utilities,     
 clothing, furniture, instruction in household    
 financial management and nutrition, groceries    
 and, most recently prepared frozen meals and     
 fresh garden produce--all of which is delivered  
 to families in their homes or made available at  
 the Fr. Jack Gavin Outreach Center on            
 Lafayette and Compton Aves., and                 
      WHEREAS, due to the closing of several      
 adjoining Catholic parishes in recent years,     
 the neighborhoods served by the St. Vincent      
 de Paul Society of St. Margaret Parish have      
 nearly tripled, now stretching from Jefferson    
 Ave. on the East to Kingshighway on the West,    
 and from Hwy. 64/40 on the North to Arsenal      
 St. on the South, and                          
       WHEREAS, its 100th year in 2009 was      
 probably the group's most vigorous, with its   
 140 active and associate members distributing  
 more than $120,000 in assistance, not counting 
 the additional value of donated food, supplies,
 clothing and furniture, and                    
       WHEREAS, the current president of the    
 St. Margaret Conference, Mr. Jeff Goldone,     
 and a special committee have, over the past    
 two years, planned, designed and executed the  
 complete renovation of a small side chapel     
 and impromptu infant "cry room" inside the     
 Church into a testimonial to the reverence they
 feel for their patron, St. Vincent de Paul, and
       WHEREAS, this beautifully renovated      
 space, renamed the "Vincentian Children's      
 Chapel" will be formally opened and dedicated  
 in ceremonies at 10 a.m. Sunday, Feb. 14, by   
 the Vicar General of The Archdiocese of St.    
 Louis, Rev. Msgr. Vernon Gardin.               
        NOW THEREFORE BE IT                     
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our     
 deliberations to congratulate the leaders and  
 members of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul  
 at St. Margaret of Scotland Parish on 100 years
 of faithful charity and service to persons in  
 their immediate neighborhood, and, moreover,   
 encourage these generous men and women to      
 continue providing compassion, sustenance      
 and tangible help to their neighbors in need   
 and we further direct the Clerk of this Board  
 to spread a copy of this Resolution across the 
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a  
 commemorative copy to the end that it may      
 be presented to our honoree at a time and      
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.       
 Introduced on the 29th day of January, 2010    
 by:                                            
 Honorable Stephen J. ConwayAlderman 8th Ward   
      Unanimous consent having been             
 obtained Resolutions No. 268 through 273       
 stood considered.                              
      President Reed moved that Resolutions     
 No. 268 through 273 are adopted, at this       
 meeting of the Board.                          
      Seconded by Mr. Williamson.               
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
           FIRST READING OF                     
             RESOLUTIONS                        
      None.                                     
         SECOND READING OF                      
            RESOLUTIONS                         
      Mr. Roddy introduced Resolution No.       
 243 and the Clerk was instructed to read same. 
          Resolution No. 243                     
  CITY PROPERTY HOLDINGS, LLC                    
          of the City of St. Louis               
      Enhanced Enterprise Zone                   
      WHEREAS, by Ordinance No. 67350            
this St. Louis Board of Aldermen (the "Board")   
authorized the Mayor, on behalf of the City      
of St. Louis (the "City"), to request the        
designation of a certain area of the City, as    
more fully described in said ordinance           
approved December 11, 2006 as an Enhanced        
Enterprise Zone ("EEZ") eligible for the tax     
incentives provided in Sections 135.950          
through 135.973, inclusive, R.S.MO. (2000)       
as amended (the "Statute"); and                  
      WHEREAS, the Statute allows, in            
certain circumstances and subject to certain     
conditions, the ad valorem taxes which would     
otherwise be due on subsequent real estate       
improvements made in EEZ areas to be abated      
up to 100% for a period not to exceed 25         
years from the date the original EEZ Area was    
so designated, or until December 11, 2031;       
and                                              
     WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 67350                
provides for a ten (10) year abatement of taxes  
on real property in the EEZ in accordance        
with the requirements of Section 135.963 of      
the Statute, as amended from time to time,       
subject to certain terms and conditions; and     
      WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 67350               
provides for the Enhanced Enterprise Zone        
Board (the "EEZ Board") to review plans for      
subsequent improvements on real property         
in the EEZ (the "Subsequent Improvements")       
and to recommend to this Board the extent to     
which tax abatement should be granted            
therefor; and                                    
    WHEREAS, City Property Holdings,             
LLC is renovating property located at 5229-      
31 Manchester Avenue; resulting in               
Subsequent Improvements; and                     
      WHEREAS, it is estimated that the          
Subsequent Improvements will cost                
approximately $860,000.00; and will result       
in 30 new jobs; and                              
      WHEREAS, EEZ Board has reviewed            
plans for City Property Holdings, LLC            
Subsequent Improvements and recommends           
that the ad valorem taxes that would otherwise   
be imposed on, Subsequent Improvements be        
abated fully for a period of ten (10 ) years;    
and                                              
      WHEREAS, City Property Holdings,           
LLC began the Subsequent Improvements            
after January 11, 2007, the effective date of    
Ordinance No. 67350; and                         
     WHEREAS, Section 135.963 of the             
Statute provides that no abatement shall be      
 granted except upon approval of an                 
 authorizing resolution by the governing            
 authority having jurisdiction over the             
 enterprise zone area following a public hearing    
 held by said governing authority for the           
 purpose of obtaining the opinions and              
 suggestions of residents of political subdivision  
 in the area affected and published in a            
 newspaper of general circulation in the area to    
 be affected by the exemption at least twenty       
 (20) days prior to the hearing but not more        
 than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing,        
 stating the time, location, date and purpose of    
 the hearing; and                                   
       WHEREAS, such public hearing was             
 held on the ______ day of ____________,            
 200__, notice of which was given in                
 accordance with the requirements of the            
 Statutes as described above, and all interested    
 parties had the opportunity to be heard at         
 said public hearing.                               
       NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by            
 the St. Louis Board of Aldermen as follows:        
  1. The Subsequent Improvements for                
     property at ____________shall be fully         
     exempt from the ad valorem taxes, which        
     would otherwise be imposed thereon,            
     for a period of ten (10) years.                
  2. For purposes of calculating the tax            
     liability for the Subsequent                   
     Improvements, any increase in the              
     assessment of any improvements, from           
     the assessment in effect for such              
     improvements as of January 1, 2009,            
     shall be deemed attributable to the            
     Subsequent Improvements.                       
  3. In accordance with Section 135.963.2 of        
     the Statute, a copy of this resolution         
     shall be forwarded to the Director of          
     Missouri Department of Economic                
     Development within thirty (30) days            
     of its approval.                               
 Introduced this 4th day of December, 2009          
 by:                                                
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward          
      Mr. Roddy moved that Resolution No.           
 243 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.       
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                      
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                           
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                         
      None.                                         
            ANNOUNCEMENTS                           
      None.                                         
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                           
      Mr. Roddy moved to excuse the                 
 following aldermen due to their necessary     
 absence: Mr. Bosley, Mr. Heitert, Mr. Wessels,
 Mr. Boyd and Ms. Krewson.                     
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
             ADJOURNMENT                       
       Mr. Roddy moved to adjourn under rules  
 to return February 5, 2010.                   
      Seconded by Mr. Gregali.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
      Respectfully submitted,                  
      David W. Sweeney                         
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                 
   BOARD OF                                    
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                
          REGULAR MEETING                      
    St. Louis, MO - February 2, 2010           
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                   
      Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,   
 Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Bryson and       
 President Bradley.                            
      Absent: None.                            
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of        
 January 26, 2010 were unanimously             
 approved.                                     
       Communications, reports, recommenda-    
 tions and documents were submitted by Board   
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:  
                 LETTINGS                      
      Two sealed proposals for the public      
 work advertised under Letting No. 8414-       
 South Grand Improvements (Arsenal to          
 McDonald) was received, publicly opened,      
 read and referred to the President.           
                PRESIDENT                      
      Detailed plans and specifications for the
 following work approved and the Board set     
 the date of March 9, 2010 for opening bids    
 for work and Secretary instructed to insert   
 proper advertisement therefore:               
      Letting No. 8421 - Residential Sound     
 Insulation Program Part 52 at Lambert-St.     
 Louis International Airport(R)                
     Letting No. 8422 - America's Center Air   
 Handling Unit Improvements                    
      Supplemental Agreement No. 5 to PSA      
 No. 993 - Design of Martin Luther King        
 Pedestrian Lighting, City Limits to Arlington 
 approved and President authorized to execute  
 same.                                         
     Supplemental Agreement No.7 to PSA          
No. 1018 - Electrical, Mechanical and            
Plumbing Design Services at Lambert-St. Louis    
International Airport approved and President     
authorized to execute same.                      
     Supplemental Agreement No. 3 to PSA         
No. 1076 - Design Services for Upgrades at       
America's Center, St. Louis, Missouri            
approved and President authorized to execute     
same.                                            
       DIRECTORS OF                              
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
      Application No. 116189, Environmental      
Management Inc., perform 2 soil borings and      
install a monitoring well in the right-of-way    
at 9th Street and Benton.                        
      2 Permits for AT&T Missouri, place         
fiber optic cable by boring and/or trenching     
ordered approved, subject to certain             
conditions at the following locations: 116049,   
3300 Franklin and; 116195, 6646 Arsenal.         
      3 Permits for Union Electric d/b/a         
AmerenUE, ordered approved, subject to           
certain conditions as follows: 116192, set 40'   
pole at location #7 and run new conduit to       
Biddle 40 Feet at Tucker and Biddle, 116193,     
set one new 40' cl pole at location #3 and       
install 165' of conduit from location #3 to      
Hadley at Tucker and Carr and, 116194,           
remove pole at location #1, set new 50' pole     
at location #3 and string new #2T at 300 E.      
Nagle at Steins.                                 
    DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                          
 UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
     Application No. 116179, Habitat for         
Humanity, resubdivide land at 1443-57 Dodier     
and 1900-20 Sullivan in C.B. 1132W and           
1135E be denied, violation of Board Order        
No. 720 governing the subdivision of land.       
      DIRECTOR OF STREETS                        
     Draft of the following ordinance            
approved, and the Secretary instructed to        
forward same to the Board of Aldermen with       
recommendation that it be passed:                
      "An Ordinance to conditionally vacate      
the easternmost 106.45' +/- 1.7' of the 15 foot  
wide east/west alley in C.B. 5434 as bounded     
by Riverview, Newby, Canaan and Edna."           
      2 Permits ordered approved, subject to     
certain conditions as follows: 116178, Terrace   
Operative LLC d/b/a PI, encroach with            
sidewalk cafe (15 tables and 60 chairs) serving  
liquor at 408 No. Euclid and, 116208, Mardi      
Gras Inc., encroach with 60 banners, south of    
7th Street from Cerre to Chouteau; east on       
Chouteau to So. Broadway; south on So.           
Broadway and south on So. Broadway to            
merge with 7th Street and continue south on      
7th Street to end at Sidney February 2-17,       
 2010.                                            
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                      
       5 Conditional Use Permits ordered          
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,    
 per Board Order No. 766: 116214, 1800 So.        
 Broadway, fitness center (1st floor only),       
 116215, 2025 East Grand, grocery store with      
 full package liquor, cooking and carryout food,  
 116216, 5941 Southwest, re-stripe existing       
 parking lot (per plans), 116217, 3958 Labadie,   
 shear sharpening and clipper blades (home        
 occupancy wavier) office use only and,           
 116218, 1136 Tamm, sit-down and carryout         
 deli.                                            
        Conditional Use Permit No. 115982,        
 2900 Prairie, to do interior alterations (per    
 plans), ordered removed off of the table.        
        Conditional Use Permit No. 115982,        
 2900 Prairie, to do interior alterations (per    
 plans) ordered approved.                         
      Agenda Items for February 2, 2010           
 ordered approved.                                
      The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,        
 February 9, 2010.                                
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                 President                        
 ATTEST:                                          
                 Cherise D. Thomas                
                 Secretary                        
              Office of the                       
         Board of Public Service                  
            City of St. Louis                     
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at     
 the Office of the Board of Public Service,       
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,            
 February 23, 2010 St. Louis, Missouri time,      
 at which time they will be publicly opened       
 and read, viz:                                   
 LETTING NO. 8419                                 
 JOB TITLE: 2010 Terminal 1 Ticketing             
 Drive Expansion Joints & Column Repairs          
 at Lambert-St. Louis International               
 Airport(R)                                       
 DEPOSIT: $3,693.75                               
      Plans, specifications and general           
 information may be obtained in the Office of     
 the Assistant Director of Airports for           
 Engineering, Airport Office Building, 4th        
 Floor, 11495 Navaid Rd., Bridgeton, MO           
 63044, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday           
 through Friday and upon payment of ONE           
 HUNDRED dollars ($100.00) check or               
 money order (no cash transactions) for each      
 package. Purchased sets become the property     
 of the prospective bidder and no refunds will   
 be made. There will be a Mandatory Pre-bid      
 meeting on February 3, 2010, at the above       
 location. Information concerning this project   
 may be obtained by telephoning (314) 551-       
 5055.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms     
 to be furnished by the President of the Board   
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to     
 Room 208, City Hall.                            
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal 
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those     
 items where so called for in the proposal, and  
 shall show the products of the respective unit  
 prices and estimated quantities. He shall also  
 show in figures bid proposals for all items on  
 which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,      
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the  
 Lump Sum for which he will perform all of       
 the estimated work, as requested by the         
 general requirements and covenants,             
 specifications and plans.                       
      In case of a discrepancy between the       
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that        
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as   
 applied to be basic items, the latter shall     
 prevail.                                        
      Each bid must be accompanied by a          
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or     
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,       
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer,     
 for the amount of Deposit required, as          
 heretofore stated.                              
     All work under this contract will be paid   
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the  
 work completed, less a retained amount of       
 ten percent (10%). Final payment, including     
 all retained percentages, will be made within   
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and  
 final acceptance by the City.                   
     "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all  
 bidders that it will affirmatively insure that  
 in any contract entered into pursuant to this   
 advertisement, minority business enterprises    
 will be afforded full opportunity to submit     
 bids in response to this invitation and will    
 not be discriminated against on the grounds of  
 race, color or national origin in consideration 
 for an award."                                  
      The contract shall provide that not less   
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the 
 City of St. Louis as determined by the          
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations    
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type 
 of workmen needed in the actual construction    
 work on the site of the construction job herein 
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing   
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall  
be paid to all workmen.                           
     All labor to be performed under this         
contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.               
      The right of the Board of Public Service    
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
January 19, 2010.                                 
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                 President                        
ATTEST:                                           
                 Cherise D. Thomas                
                 Secretary                        
            Office of the                         
       Board of Public Service                    
          City of St. Louis                       
    SEALED PROPOSALS will be received             
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at      
the Office of the Board of Public Service,        
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M., March       
2, 2010 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which        
time they will be publicly opened and read,       
viz:                                              
LETTING NO. 8420                                  
JOB TITLE: 2010 Terminal 1 Ticketing              
Drive Resurfacing and Slab Repairs at             
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
DEPOSIT: $11,328.18                               
      Plans, specifications and general           
information may be obtained in the Office of      
the Assistant Director of Airports for            
Engineering, Airport Office Building, 4th         
Floor, 11495 Navaid Rd., Bridgeton, MO            
63044, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday            
through Friday and upon payment of ONE            
HUNDRED dollars ($100.00) check or                
money order (no cash transactions) for each       
package. Purchased sets become the property       
of the prospective bidder and no refunds will     
be made. There will be a Mandatory Pre-bid        
meeting on February 10, 2010, at the above        
location. Information concerning this project     
may be obtained by telephoning (314) 551-         
5055.                                             
      Proposals must be made on blank forms       
to be furnished by the President of the Board     
of Public Service, and must be submitted to       
Room 208, City Hall.                              
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal   
in figures, without interlineations, alterations  
or erasures, a unit price for each of those       
items where so called for in the proposal, and    
shall show the products of the respective unit    
prices and estimated quantities. He shall also    
 show in figures bid proposals for all items on    
 which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,        
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the    
 Lump Sum for which he will perform all of         
 the estimated work, as requested by the           
 general requirements and covenants,               
 specifications and plans.                         
       In case of a discrepancy between the        
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that          
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as     
 applied to be basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                          
       Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or       
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,         
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer,       
 for the amount of Deposit required, as            
 heretofore stated.                                
        All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the    
 work completed, less a retained amount of         
 ten percent (10%). Final payment, including       
 all retained percentages, will be made within     
 ten (10) days after completion of all work        
 and final acceptance by the City.                 
       "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies      
 all bidders that it will affirmatively insure     
 that in any contract entered into pursuant to     
 this advertisement, minority business             
 enterprises will be afforded full opportunity     
 to submit bids in response to this invitation     
 and will not be discriminated against on the      
 grounds of race, color or national origin in      
 consideration for an award."                      
       The contract shall provide that not less    
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
 City of St. Louis as determined by the            
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
 of workmen needed in the actual construction      
 work on the site of the construction job herein   
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
 be paid to all workmen.                           
       All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
 Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.               
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 January 26, 2010.                                 
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work Hereinafter mentioned at     
 the Office of the Board of Public Service,       
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M., March      
 9, 2010. St. Louis, Missouri time, at which      
 time they will be publicly opened and read,      
 viz:                                             
 LETTING NO. 8421                                 
 JOB TITLE: Residential Sound Insulation          
 Program, Part 52, at LAMBERT - ST.               
 LOUIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                   
 DEPOSIT: $ 12,000.00                             
       Plans, specifications and general          
 information may be obtained in the Planning      
 and Development Office, 11425 Navaid             
 Road, 4th Floor, Bridgeton, Missouri 63044,      
 from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday through          
 Friday and upon payment of fifty dollars         
 ($50.00) for each package. Cashier checks,       
 Money Orders, or business checks only.           
 NO CASH ACCEPTED. A Mandatory Pre-               
 Bid Meeting will be held on February 23,         
 2010, at 11 am (CST) at the Planning and         
 Development Office. Purchased sets become        
 the property of the prospective bidder and       
 no refunds will be made. Information             
 concerning this project may be obtained by       
 telephoning (314) 551-5025.                      
       Proposals must be made on blank forms      
 to be furnished by the President of the Board    
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to      
 Room 208, City Hall.                             
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal  
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations 
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall   
 show the products of the respective unit prices  
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show     
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which  
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in          
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump 
 Sum for which he will perform all of the         
 estimated work, as requested by the general      
 requirements and covenants, specifications       
 and plans.                                       
   In case of a discrepancy between the gross     
 sum shown in the proposal and that obtained      
 by the addition of the bid prices as applied to  
 be basic items, the latter shall prevail.        
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
 Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,      
 for the amount of Deposit required, as           
 heretofore stated.                               
    All work under this contract will be paid      
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed, less a retained amount of          
ten percent (10%). The City will make final        
payment, including all retained percentages,       
within ten (10) days after completion of all       
work and final acceptance.                         
   "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all      
bidders that it will affirmatively insure that in  
any contract entered into pursuant to this         
advertisement, minority business enterprises       
will be afforded full opportunity to submit        
bids in response to this invitation and will not   
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,   
color or national origin in consideration for an   
award."                                            
     The contract shall provide that not less      
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
City of St. Louis as determined by the             
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
of workmen needed in the actual construction       
work on the site of the construction job herein    
authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
be paid to all workmen.                            
     All labor to be performed under this          
contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the      
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.                
   The right of the Board of Public Service to     
reject any or all bids are expressly reserved.     
    By Order of the Board of Public Service,       
February 2, 2010.                                  
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.          
                 President                         
ATTEST:                                            
                 Cherise D. Thomas                 
                 Secretar                          
            Office of the                          
       Board of Public Service                     
          City of St. Louis                        
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received            
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by       
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market           
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,       
St. Louis, Missouri time on MARCH 09, 2010         
at which time they will be publicly opened         
and read, viz:                                     
LETTING NO. 8422                                   
JOB TITLE: AMERICA'S CENTER AIR                    
HANDLING UNIT IMPROVEMENTS                         
DEPOSIT: $99,600.00                                
     Drawings, Specifications and Form of          
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the      
 President of the Board of Public Service,          
 Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be         
 viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-             
 bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).      
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) for                  
 each set.                                          
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
 be made.                                           
 PRE-BID WALK THRU :                                
      A pre-bid walk thru for all contractors       
 bidding on this project will be held on,           
 February 09, 2010 at 10a.m., at the America's      
 Center, located at 9th & Cole entrance.            
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively      
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to        
 this invitation and will not be discriminated    
 against on the grounds of race, color or national
 origin in consideration for an award. The        
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.       
       The Contract shall provide that not less   
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the  
 City of St. Louis as determined by the           
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
 of workmen needed in the actual construction     
 work on the site of the construction job herein  
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
 be paid to all workmen.                          
      All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
 By Order of the Board of Public Service,         
 February 9, 2010.                                
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Cherise D. Thomas               
                  Secretar                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
             REVISED 1-28-10                      
      A public hearing will be held by the        
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
 Wednesday, February 17, 2010 in Room 208         
 City Hall to consider the following:             
      APPEAL #9481 - Appeal filed by              
 Freddie's Fish & Chicken Shack, from the         
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of an occupancy permit             
 authorizing the Appellant to operate a           
 carryout restaurant at 4541 N. Kingshighway.     
 WARD 1 #AO472035-09 ZONE: "B" -                  
 Two-Family Dwelling District                     
       APPEAL #9482 - Appeal filed by             
 Neighborhood Enterprises Inc, from the           
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to erect one (1) non-illuminated   
 wall sign, per plans, at 2752 Lafayette. WARD    
 6 #AB471847-09 ZONE: "G" - Local                 
 commercial and Office District                   
      APPEAL #9483 - Appeal filed by Todd         
 & Jennifer Budin, from the determination of      
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a     
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 construct a garage and carport at 3965           
Connecticut. WARD 15 #AB471411-09                 
ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling                
District                                          
      APPEAL #9439 - Appeal filed by              
Michelle Wallace, from the determination of       
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
building permit authorizing the Appellant to      
complete interior alterations to convert two      
units into seven units, per plans, at 4355-57     
Finney Ave. (Cont) WARD 19 #AB466743-             
09 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood                       
Commercial District                               
     APPEAL #9465 - Appeal filed by               
H & R, from the determination of the Building     
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy        
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate       
an auto repair business for minor repairs on      
cars to prepare for wholesale auctions at         
2731R S. Jefferson. (Cont) WARD 9                 
#AO470770-09 ZONE: "G" - Local                    
Commercial & Office District                      
     In accordance with the provisions of         
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
    By authority of the Board of                  
Adjustment.                                       
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                      
 PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                      
  A public hearing will be held by the            
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 in Room 208          
City Hall to consider the following:              
     APPEAL #9046 - Appeal filed by A & E         
Automotive, from the determination of the         
Building Commissioner in the revocation of a      
use variance and occupancy permit, with           
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
operate an auto repair & used car sales business  
(no body work) at 8910 Riverview Dr.              
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 2                       
#AO424623-08 ZONE: "F" Neighborhood               
Commercial District                               
     APPEAL #9390 - Appeal filed by Hit           
LLC, from the determination of the Building       
Commissioner in the revocation of a use           
variance and occupancy permit, with               
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
operate a wholesale business of snack items       
at 3801 S. Grand. (Revocation Hearing)            
WARD 15 #AO460874-09 ZONE: "F"                    
Neighborhood Commercial District                  
     APPEAL #9447 - Appeal filed by South         
Public Market, from the determination of the      
Building Commissioner in the revocation of a      
use variance and occupancy permit, with           
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to          
operate a grocery store with a deli and full      
package liquor at 7701 S. Broadway.               
 (Revocation Hearing) WARD 11                  
 #AO466379-09 ZONE: "F" Neighborhood           
 Commercial District                           
      APPEAL #9444 - Appeal filed by           
 Anthony Daly, from the determination of the   
 Building Commissioner in the revocation of a  
 use variance and occupancy permit, with       
 conditions, authorizing the Appellant to      
 operate a salvage yard at 7818-20 Vulcan.     
 (Revocation Hearing)           WARD 11        
 #AO452666-09 ZONE: "K" Unrestricted           
 District                                      
      APPEAL #9445 - Appeal filed by           
 Anthony Daly, from the determination of the   
 Building Commissioner in the revocation of a  
 use variance and occupancy permit, with       
 conditions, authorizing the Appellant to      
 operate an auto repair business with inside   
 storage of building materials and outside     
 salvage at 315 E. Primm.(Revocation           
 Hearing) WARD 11 #AO452657-09                 
 ZONE: "K" Unrestricted District               
      In accordance with the provisions of     
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.     
     By authority of the Board of              
 Adjustment.                                   
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                  
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held   
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on         
 Thursday, February 18, 2010, on the           
 following conditional uses:                   
      5616 Rhodes - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - ARCHWAY VARIETY (Internet            
 Sales/Office Use Only) "A" Single-Family      
 Dwelling District. Mv Ward 16                 
     5044 St. Louis Ave. - Home Occupancy      
 Waiver - D N L (Contracting/Office Use Only)  
 "B" Two-Family Dwelling District. Pmg         
 Ward 1                                        
      5226 Sutherland - Home Occupancy         
 Waiver - BACKFLOW & IRRIGATION                
 MANAGEMENT,          LLC   (Irrigation        
 Contractor) "B"-Two-Family Dwelling           
 District. Te Ward 14                          
     4339 Gannett - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - AZIZI CONSTRUCTION COM-              
 PANY (Construction) "A" Single-Family         
 Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 14                
      3836 Robert - Home Occupancy Waiver      
 - MENENDEZ PLUMBING (Plumbing                 
 Business/Office Use Only) "A" single-Family   
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 12                 
     6850 B Gravois - #AB-473104-10 -          
 CHINA DRAGON (Interior Alterations per        
 Plans) "F" Neighborhood Commercial          
 District. Te Ward 12                        
      5005-09 Union - #AO-473247-10-         
 GOOD SHEPARD INFANT (Daycare 60             
 Children/16 Infants/44 2 1/2 to 12 years/6am
 to Midnight) "F" Neighborhood Commercial    
 District. Mv Ward 1                         
      511 N Garrison - #AO-4723205-10 -      
 ST. LOUIS ART WORK (Art Classes/1st         
 Floor Only) "H" Area Commercial District.   
 M v Ward 19                                 
     4923 Odell - #AO-472953-10 -            
 SOUTH CITY COMMUNITY SCHOOL                 
 (School/4 Classrooms & Playroom/2 nd fl     
 Only/7a.m. to 2p.m./M-F) "B" Two-Family     
 Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 8               
  PUBLIC NOTICE                              
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held 
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on       
 Thursday, February 25, 2010, on the         
 following conditional uses:                 
      8126 Violaview - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - ALL AB Exterminating Solutions     
 (Pest Exterminating/Office Use Only) "A"    
 Single-Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward    
 11                                          
      4948 Odell - Home Occupancy Waiver     
 - Go Live Fundamental Life Christian Church 
 Pantry (Christian Ministry Pantry (Mobile)  
 "B" Two-Family Dwelling District. Te Ward   
 8                                           
      5647 Maple - Home Occupancy Waiver-    
 R F C Design (General Contracting/Office Use
 Only) "B"-Two-Family Dwelling District.     
 Te Ward 26                                  
     5718 Morganford - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - Bennett's (Piano Tuning/Office Use 
 Only) "A" Single-Family Dwelling District.  
 Te Ward 13                                  
      5507-B Waterman Blvd. - Home           
 Occupancy Waiver-Urban Interior's & More,   
 Inc. (General Contracting) "E" Multiple-    
 Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 28       
       3717 S Kingshighway - #AO-473800-     
 10 - Budget Finance, Inc. (Small Loan Office
 w/Gold Buying-No Check Cashing) "F"         
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg       
 Ward 10                                     
      330 N Sarah - #AO-469029-09 - West     
 End Laundry, Inc. (Coin Operated            
 Laundromat) "F" Neighborhood Commercial     
 District. Mv Ward 18                        
      3400 Miami - #AO-473644-10 - Kids      
 Delight 2, LLC (Daycare 20 Children/4       
 Infants/16 2 1/2 to 12yrs/M-F/6am to 9pm/1st
fl.) "F" Neighborhood Commercial District.       
Mv Ward 20                                       
     4156 N Newstead - AB-473488-10 -            
Flames Bar-B-Que House Interior & Exterior       
Alterations per Plans) "F" Neighborhood          
Commercial District. Bl Ward 21                  
     4471 Olive - #AB-473633-10 - Youth          
Technology Education Center (Interior            
Alterations per Plans) "G"-Local Commercial      
and Office District. Te Ward 18                  
INVITATION TO BID                                
 Board of Police Commissioners                   
 Metropolitan Police Department                  
    City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
      750-000787 - Catering Services             
               260-00409 -                       
     Printing of 2009 Annual Report              
               260-00410 -                       
      Design of 2009 Annual Report               
      Sealed bids of the above will be received  
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
Department, Office of the Director of            
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
local time, Friday, February 19, 2010 when       
they will be opened publicly and announced.      
Official bid forms on which bids must be         
submitted may be obtained from the Office of     
the Director of Purchasing by prospective        
bidders upon request in person or by             
telephone during regular business hours.         
      Contractor shall not discriminate in       
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
any employee or applicant for employment         
because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
contract, and the Board of Police                
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
any damages resulting from termination.          
      The Board of Police Commissioners          
reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
to reject any and all bids. The Board also       
reserves the right to consider criteria other    
than the low bid in the award of a contract.     
Among other factors, the Board will consider     
the location of the business, minority interest  
in the business, prior performance and the bid   
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.    
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and           
associated Regulations could apply to the        
service for which bids are being sought herein.  
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                       
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from Brad Turner,       
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
      Bidders are also advised that the State       
 of Missouri requires workers on all public         
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
 the prevailing rate for any work done under        
 the contract by the contractor or by any           
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
 Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid      
 please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.      
 Email must include vendor's company name,          
 address, and description of bid.                   
      Brad Turner                                   
      Purchasing Agent                              
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                           
   REQUEST FOR                                      
    PROPOSALS                                       
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                            
 PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY                       
      The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified    
 contractors or companies to submit Proposals       
 for debris removal and hazardous tree/limb/        
 stump removal services after a storm, disaster     
 or other emergency response events. The            
 contractors or companies must have                 
 experience in handling said events and in the      
 preparation, response, recovery and mitigation     
 phase of any event which exceeds the City's        
 resource capability to handle.                     
     The Request for Proposal documents             
 may be obtained at the Division of Forestry,       
 1415 N. 13 th Street, St. Louis, MO                
 commencing January 4, 2010.                        
      Sealed bids will be received until 4:00   
 P.M. on Friday, February 19, 2010, at the      
 Division of Forestry.                          
      The City of St. Louis is an Equal         
 Opportunity Employer, and Respondents          
 shall comply with the Mayor's Executive        
 Order #28, as amended.                         
      The City of St. Louis reserves the right  
 to accept or reject any or all responses or to 
 cancel this bid in part or in its entirety.    
 REQUESTFORPROPOSAL                             
     ST. LOUIS PUBLIC LIBRARY                   
       SEALED BID 10-00038 -                    
          MOVING SERVICES                       
      The Board of Directors of the City of     
 St. Louis Municipal Library District (the      
 "Board of Directors") is requesting the        
 submission of proposals from qualified firms   
 to provide multi-staged moving services for    
 its Central Library renovation project. In     
 order to obtain a copy of the Request for      
 Proposal, please contact Charles R. Eveker,    
 c/o CLR Consultants, LLC, 7777 Bonhomme,       
 Suite 1210, Clayton, Missouri 63105, 314-      
 725-8555; dfcchuck@aol.com. The Proposal       
 must be received no later than 5:00 p.m. C.S.T.
 on March 1, 2010.                              
   REQUEST FOR                                  
    PROPOSALS                                   
 OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER                 
         CITY OF ST. LOUIS                      
   CITY UNDERTAKER SERVICES                     
      The St. Louis City Medical Examiner's     
 Office is requesting proposals from firms to   
 provide City Undertaker Services. Sealed       
 proposals in response to this request will be  
 received by the City of St. Louis, Office of   
 the Medical Examiner, 1300 Clark Avenue,       
 St. Louis, MO 63103-2718, (314) 622-4974,      
 Attention: Baxter W. Leisure, Jr., Executive   
 Assistant, until 2:00 PM Wednesday, March      
 03, 2010, and then immediately opened.         
       Specifications may be obtained at the    
 Office of the Medical Examiner, City of St.    
 Louis, 1300 Clark Avenue, St. Louis, MO        
 63103-2718, (314) 622-4974 or by visiting      
 the City of St. Louis website at               
 http://www.stlouiscity.com and following the   
 links RFQs, RFPs and Bids.                     
DEPARTMENT OF                                                                                                               
 PERSONNEL    ST. LOUIS LIVING                                                                                              
      NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                                               WAGE ORDINANCE                                   
     The City of St. Louis, Department of                                    LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                       
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,                                   Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that     
announces competitive Civil Service                                        the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597       
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal                            and associated Regulations apply to the          
Service.                                                                   service [concession] [lease] [City Financial     
                                                                           Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are     
                                                                           being sought herein. This Ordinance requires     
      The last date for filing an application for                                                                           
                                                                           that, unless specific exemptions apply, all      
the following examination is FEBRUARY 12,                                                                                   
                                                                           individuals who perform work pursuant to a       
2010,                                                                                                                       
                                                                           contract executed between the successful         
              LABOR FOREMAN                                                [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]       
            (FORESTRY DIVISION)                                            must be paid a minimum of the applicable         
                Prom. 1613                                                 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached      
     (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                                               Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are      
           EMPLOYEES ONLY)                                                 adjusted during the term of the contract         
 $33,020 to $49,000 (Annual Salary Range)                                  pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates      
                                                                           after such adjustment is made. Each bidder       
                                                                           [proponent] must submit the attached "Living     
     Applications for the following                                        Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance               
examination will be accepted until a sufficient                            Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure    
number are received to fill the anticipated                                to submit this Declaration with the bid          
vacancy. Please submit application as soon                                 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid   
as possible.                                                               [proposal]. A successful bidder's                
                                                                           [proponent's] failure to comply with contract    
           PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                
                                                                           provisions related to the Living Wage            
           APPRAISER MANAGER                                               Ordinance may result in termination of the       
            Prom./O.C.C. 1670                                              contract and the imposition of additional        
 $47,814 to $71,266 (Annual Salary Range)                                  penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and      
________________________________________________________________________   Regulations.                                     
      Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social                                   Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
Security, and Employee Retirement System                                                                                    
                                                                           are available upon request from La Queta         
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to                            Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be     
salary.                                                                    accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living          
                                                                           wage.                                            
      Application forms and further                                                                                         
information concerning duties of positions,                                                                                 
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative                                                                            
weights of examination components, and                                        SUPPLY                                        
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the                                                                            
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114                                COMMISSIONER                                     
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO                                      Office of the Supply Commissioner,               
63101. Applications can be submitted on the                                Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,         
Internet. Visit the city web site at                                       St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,              
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with                                  February 9, 2010 - ADVERTISED BIDS               
the City.                                                                                                                   
                                                                           will be received by the undersigned to be        
                 Richard R. Frank,                                                                                          
                                                                           opened at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for  
                 Director                                                                                                   
                                                                           the items listed below on the dates specified.   
February 3, 2010                                                                                                            
                                                                             TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2010                     
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                                                                                                       
                                                                              MANDATORY PRE-MEETING FOR                     
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any                                                                                       
                                                                           CONTRACT FOR MEAL SERVICE                        
individual or company who performs work                                                                                     
                                                                           (CORRECTIONS) FOR A PERIOD OF                    
within the City limits must obtain a Business                                                                               
                                                                           THREE YEARS FROM JULY 1, 2010.                   
License. This would also apply to businesses                                                                                
who employ sales or delivery personnel to                                      THE MEETING WILL BE AT 10AM,                 
come into the City. Contracts requiring work                               ST LOUIS CITY JUSTICE CENTER                     
to be performed in the City will NOT be                                    (CJC), 200 S. TUCKER BLVD, ST. LOUIS,            
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                                                                                           
 MO. VENDORS MUST HAVE A                         
 REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE                   
 MEETING IN ORDER TO BID.                        
       TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 2010                    
         NEOPRENE GLOVES                         
 for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
 Agency) per Req. #6.                            
 GEAR BAGS - NETPACK 27" X 13"                   
 X 12" BALLISTIC NYLON CARGO                     
 for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
 Agency) per Req. #8.                            
      ISG ELITE XR THERMAL                       
         IMAGER PACKAGE                          
 for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
 Agency) per Req. #103.                          
   TRASH PUMPS & TAMPERS                         
 for Water Division per Req. #1193.              
     THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010                     
       BID PROPOSAL FOR                          
      CONCRETE, READY MIX                        
 for a period of three (3) years from June 1,    
 2010.                                           
        BID PROPOSAL FOR                         
       JANITORIAL SUPPLIES                       
 for a period of three (3) years from June 1,    
 2010.                                           
           TRAILER,                              
   WHITE GOOSENECK, 30 FOOT                      
  for City Emergency Management Agency           
 (CEMA) per Req. # 100.                          
      TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 2010                    
    BID PROPOSAL FOR                             
 MEAL SERVICE CORRECTIONS                        
 for a period of three (3) years from July 1,    
 2010.                                           
         Notice to All Suppliers                 
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
 employment practices that are in accordance     
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
 there-under to the end that all Contractors     
 and suppliers of materials and services will    
 offer equal opportunity for employment and      
 job advancement to blacks and other minority    
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
             Requesting a Bid                    
      To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,      
  MO. VENDORS MUST HAVE A                         
  REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE                   
  MEETING IN ORDER TO BID.                        
        TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 2010                    
          NEOPRENE GLOVES                         
  for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
  Agency) per Req. #6.                            
  GEAR BAGS - NETPACK 27" X 13"                   
  X 12" BALLISTIC NYLON CARGO                     
  for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
  Agency) per Req. #8.                            
       ISG ELITE XR THERMAL                       
          IMAGER PACKAGE                          
  for C.E.M.A. (City Emergency Management         
  Agency) per Req. #103.                          
    TRASH PUMPS & TAMPERS                         
  for Water Division per Req. #1193.              
      THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 2010                     
        BID PROPOSAL FOR                          
       CONCRETE, READY MIX                        
  for a period of three (3) years from June 1,    
  2010.                                           
         BID PROPOSAL FOR                         
        JANITORIAL SUPPLIES                       
  for a period of three (3) years from June 1,    
  2010.                                           
            TRAILER,                              
    WHITE GOOSENECK, 30 FOOT                      
   for City Emergency Management Agency           
  (CEMA) per Req. # 100.                          
       TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 2010                    
     BID PROPOSAL FOR                             
  MEAL SERVICE CORRECTIONS                        
  for a period of three (3) years from July 1,    
  2010.                                           
          Notice to All Suppliers                 
        NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
  St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
  with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
  employment practices that are in accordance     
  with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
  and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
  there-under to the end that all Contractors     
  and suppliers of materials and services will    
  offer equal opportunity for employment and      
  job advancement to blacks and other minority    
  groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
              Requesting a Bid                    
       To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,      
please contact the Supply Commissioner's      
office at (314) 622-4580.                     
      Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
30 days following the date of bid opening.    
If you desire bid results, please include a   
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
     The City of St. Louis desires to         
purchase recycled products whenever           
possible, especially items containing post    
consumer waste materials. If your company     
can supply recycled products, please provide  
information to this office.                   
           Surplus Property                   
     Notice is hereby given that the City of  
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale  
during the course of the year. The property   
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the   
City Journal.                                 
     The right to reject any and all bids is  
reserved.                                     
                Freddie L. Dunlap             
                Supply Commissioner           
                (314) 622-4580                
                www.stlouis.missouri.org      
