      The   City Journal              
          (USPS: 114-540)             
        Published Weekly              
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
       by City of St. Louis           
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
    Periodicals postage paid at       
        St. Louis, Missouri           
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2011-2012                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
     Friday, May 13, 2011.        
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen      
 Chambers May 13, 2011.                       
      The roll was called and the following   
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,    
 Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin, Triplett, Young,
 Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Arnowitz,          
 Wessels, Howard, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,   
 Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,        
 Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson   
 and President Reed. 26                       
      "Almighty God, source of all authority, 
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations  
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."        
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                       
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                   
      None.                                   
          INTRODUCTION OF                     
          HONORED GUESTS                      
      None.                                   
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                    
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the         
 minutes for April 19, 2011.                  
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.               
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                  
         Report of the Clerk                  
     of the Board of Aldermen                 
      None.                                   
         Office of the Mayor                  
City of St. Louis                             
Room 200 City Hall                            
1200 Market Street                            
St. Louis, MO 63103                           
(314) 622-3201                                
May 13, 2011                                  
Honorable Board of Aldermen                   
Room 230 City Hall                            
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                     
Dear Board Members:                           
     I have the pleasure to submit the        
following individuals for appointment to the  
Tower Grove South Concerned Citizens          
Special Business District:                    
     The appointment of Ms. Kathryn           
Heitzenroeder, who resides at 3859A           
McDonald Ave., 63116 and whose term will      
expire on December 31st, 2015.                
     The appointment of Ms. Jill C. Miller,   
who resides at 3877A McDonald Ave., 63116     
and whose term will expire on December 31st,  
2015.                                         
     I respectfully request your approval of  
these appointments.                           
     Sincerely,                               
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                          
     Mayor                                    
     Mr. Cohn moved to approve the            
following individuals for appointment to the  
Tower Grove South Concerned Citizens          
Special Business District: Kathryn            
Heitzenroeder and Jill C. Miller.             
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                  
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                    
     None.                                    
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                    
   - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
     None.                                    
         BOARD BILLS FOR                      
          THIRD READING                       
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                     
     None.                                    
           RESOLUTIONS                        
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                     
     None.                                    
          FIRST READING                       
          OF BOARD BILLS                      
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by       
request:                                      
           Board Bill No. 55                  
     An Ordinance recommended by the          
Planning Commission on May 4, 2011, to        
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, from "F" Neighborhood           
 Commercial District to the "D" Multiple-          
 Family Dwelling District, in City Blocks 631      
 (2115-23 N. 13th & 1303-12 Clinton Streets)       
 & 640 (1221 Clinton Street) and from "D"          
 Multiple-Family Dwelling District and "F"         
 Neighborhood Commercial District to the "D"       
 Multiple-Family Dwelling District only in         
 City Block 632 (1301-19 Clinton Street), so       
 as to include the described parcels of land in    
 City Blocks 631, 632 and 640; and containing      
 an emergency clause.                              
 Board Member Flowers introduced by                
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 56                     
      An Ordinance recommended by the              
 Planning Commission on May 4, 2011, to            
 change the zoning of property as indicated on     
 the District Map, from "K" Unrestricted           
 District to the "J" Industrial District, in City  
 Blocks 3458 (635 E. Clarence) and 3463 (652,      
 650, 644, 642, 640, 634, 626, 624, 616-18,        
 614, 612 & 600-06 Carrie Avenue, 601, 603,        
 607, 609, 613, 617-19, 621, 623, 629-31, 633-     
 35, 647, & 645 Pope Avenue, and 6100, 6106,       
 6108 & 6110 Prescott Avenue), so as to include    
 the described parcels of land in City Blocks      
 3458 and 3463; and containing an emergency        
 clause.                                           
 Board Member Bosley introduced by                 
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 57                     
       An ordinance pertaining to brick dealers    
 as defined in Ordinance 67392, which remains      
 in full force and effect, and enacting a new      
 ordinance regulating the hours of operation       
 for those who engage in brick dealing, and        
 requiring that posted cameras record              
 transactions that take place in the business of   
 brick dealing during all permitted business       
 hours of operation, requiring bricks sold or      
 offered to brick dealers and the vehicle of the   
 seller be photographed by the purchaser of        
 the bricks, permit revocation, penalty,           
 containing severability and emergency clauses.    
 Board Member Moore introduced by                  
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 58                     
      An Ordinance authorizing Amendment           
 No. 3 to the Amended and Restated Lease           
 ("Amendment No. 3") between the City of           
 St. Louis and W.A.T. Dignity Corporation,         
 originally authorized by Ordinance 64565,         
 which was adopted by the Board of Alderman        
 of the City of St. Louis and approved             
 September 28, 1998, and subsequently              
 amended pursuant to Ordinance 64913, for          
 property and improvements located at              
 Whittier and Kennerly Streets.                    
 Board Member Vollmer introduced by               
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 59                    
       An ordinance amending Ordinance            
 #67015 approved March 14, 2006, by               
 modifying the terms of the ten (10) year real    
 estate tax abatement for the 2632 January        
 Avenue in the N. Magnolia Ave./Pearl St./S.      
 Magnolia Av./January Ave. Redevelopment          
 Area authorized by Ordinance #67015.             
 Board Member Triplett introduced by              
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 60                    
       An ordinance approving a blighting study   
 and redevelopment plan dated April 26, 2011      
 for the 1539 Vail Pl. Redevelopment Area (as     
 further defined herein, the "Plan") after finding
 that said Redevelopment Area ("Area") is         
 blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the    
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
 description of the boundaries of the Area in     
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto  
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",       
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation    
 of the Area is in the interest of the public     
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of    
 the people of the City; approving the Plan       
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430       
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a        
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment    
 of the Area which affords maximum                
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area        
 by private enterprise; finding that no property  
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land          
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the     
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body        
 corporate and politic created under Missouri     
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;     
 finding that none of the property within the     
 Area is occupied, but if it should become        
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined          
 herein) shall be responsible for providing       
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to    
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of  
 implementation of the Plan; finding that         
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the     
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with        
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available  
 up to a five (5) year real estate tax abatement; 
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis       
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting       
 various officials, departments, boards and       
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to         
 exercise their respective powers in a manner     
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a       
 severability clause.                             
 Board Member Baringer introduced by              
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 61                      
      An Ordinance, recommended by the             
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis   
(the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a    
public works and improvement project for           
the design and construction of pedestrian          
access and safety improvements, embankment         
repairs, and various aesthetic enhancements        
within the vicinity of the intersection of River   
Des Peres Boulevard and Chippewa Street            
(the "Project"); and authorizing and directing     
the City of St. Louis (the "City"), by and         
through its Board of Public Service, to let        
contracts and provide for the design,              
construction, materials, and equipment for the     
Project, authorizing the Board of Public Service   
to employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,     
fees and wages, acquire any and all said real      
and personal property rights and interests, in     
whole or in part, including easements (by lease,   
purchase, eminent domain, condemnation, or         
otherwise), as necessary for the completion        
of the Project, and to enter into supplemental     
agreements with the Missouri Highway and           
Transportation Commission, Federal                 
Highway Administration, utilities, railroads,      
and other governmental agencies for the            
Project all in accordance with the federal         
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st             
Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with any         
contract containing sections for: description      
of the work, material guarantees, estimated        
expenditure allocations, fund reversion            
authorization, applicable federal and state        
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity          
provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,          
and contract advertising statutes; requiring that  
all work provided for herein shall be carried      
out in accordance with detailed plans and          
specifications adopted and approved by the         
Board of Public Service before bids are            
advertised therefore; directing that all           
construction contracts let by authority of this    
Ordinance provide for federal and state            
prevailing wage requirements including             
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and       
compliance with all applicable statutes of the     
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the        
Revised Code of the City, as amended;              
requiring all specifications approved by the       
Board of Public Service and contracts let by       
authority of this Ordinance provide for:           
compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders       
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/              
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when             
superseded or prohibited by federal or state       
law or regulation; contractor's compliance         
with the provisions of Sections 285.525 thru       
285.555 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
as amended, by requiring enrollment and            
participation in a federal work authorization      
program and no knowing employment of               
unauthorized aliens; contractor's compliance       
 with the provisions of Section 292.675 of the    
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended,        
 by providing a ten-hour Occupational Safety      
 and Health Administration construction safety    
 program for their on-site employees;             
 contractor's compliance with the provisions      
 of Section 34.057 of the Revised Statutes of     
 Missouri, as amended, (Prompt Payment/           
 Retainage), as applicable; requiring all         
 advertisements for bids pursuant to this         
 Ordinance be subject to the provisions of        
 Section 8.250 of the Revised Statutes of         
 Missouri, as amended; and appropriating the      
 total estimated cost of the Project of Five      
 Hundred Thirteen Thousand, Six Hundred and       
 Eighty Dollars ($513,680.00) from various        
 sources including Transportation, Community,     
 and System Preservation Program (TCSP),          
 Community Development Block Grant                
 Funding, and the One-Half Cent Ward Capital      
 Improvement Fund; authorizing and directing      
 the Comptroller of the City to draw warrants     
 from time to time and disburse funds             
 appropriated by this ordinance and to receive    
 and disburse grant funds in accordance with      
 the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st        
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the        
 signature and certification of vouchers by the   
 President of the Board of Public Service; and    
 containing a public work emergency clause.       
 Board Member Davis introduced by request:        
            Board Bill No. 62                     
       An ordinance amending Ordinance            
 #67436 approved February 26, 2007, by            
 modifying the terms of the ten (10) year real    
 estate tax abatement for the 3100-42 Franklin    
 Avenue/3121-37 Delmar Blvd. Redevelop-           
 ment Area authorized by Ordinance #67436.        
 Board Member Villa introduced by request:        
            Board Bill No. 63                     
       An ordinance approving a blighting study   
 and redevelopment plan dated April 26, 2011      
 for the 3623 Steins St. Redevelopment Area       
 (as further defined herein, the "Plan") after    
 finding that said Redevelopment Area ("Area")    
 is blighted as defined in Section 99.320 of the  
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the    
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
 description of the boundaries of the Area in     
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto  
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",       
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation    
 of the Area is in the interest of the public     
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of    
 the people of the City; approving the Plan       
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430       
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a        
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment    
 of the Area which affords maximum                
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
 by private enterprise; finding that no property 
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land         
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the    
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body       
 corporate and politic created under Missouri    
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;    
 finding that none of the property within the    
 Area is occupied, but if it should become       
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined         
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis      
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting      
 various officials, departments, boards and      
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to        
 exercise their respective powers in a manner    
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a      
 severability clause.                            
 Board Member Villa introduced by request:       
             Board Bill No. 64                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated April 26, 2011     
 for the 7416-18 Virginia Ave. Redevelopment     
 Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")    
 after finding that said Redevelopment Area      
 ("Area") is blighted as defined in Section      
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,     
 as amended (the "Statute" being Sections        
 99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as             
 amended); containing a description of the       
 boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis 
 ("City"), attached hereto and incorporated      
 herein as Attachment "A", finding that          
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area    
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,
 morals and general welfare of the people of     
 the City; approving the Plan attached hereto    
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",      
 pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as             
 amended; finding that there is a feasible       
 financial plan for the redevelopment of the     
 Area which affords maximum opportunity for      
 redevelopment of the Area by private            
 enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
 may be acquired by the Land Clearance for       
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.      
 Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and     
 politic created under Missouri law, through     
 the exercise of eminent domain; finding that    
 the property within the Area is partially       
 occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as defined    
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
various officials, departments, boards and        
agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
exercise their respective powers in a manner      
consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
severability clause.                              
 REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                        
       BOARD BILLS                                
         Convention and Tourism                   
                  None.                           
    Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions            
                  None.                           
       Health and Human Services                  
                 None.                            
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning               
   Board Bills No. 55, 56, 62 and 64.             
         Intergovernmental Affairs                
                   None.                          
                 Legislation                      
                   None.                          
        Neighborhood Development                  
        Board Bills No. 59, 60 and 63.            
     Parks and Environmental Matters              
                  None.                           
       Personnel and Administration               
                  None.                           
             Public Employees                     
                   None.                          
               Public Safety                      
              Board Bill No. 57.                  
               Public Utilities                   
                   None.                          
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse               
             Board Bill No. 61.                   
      Transportation and Commerce                 
                  None.                           
              Ways and Means                      
              Board Bill No. 58.                  
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                        
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                         
     Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on              
Transportation and Commerce submitted the         
following report which was read.                  
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
May 13, 2011.                                     
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
     The Committee on Transportation and          
Commerce to whom was referred the                 
following Board Bills, report that they have      
considered the same and recommend adoption.       
             Board Bill No. 47                      
       An ordinance recommended and                 
 approved by the Airport Commission and the         
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,               
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the          
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.       
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of      
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the    
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on          
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement       
 offered by the United States of America (the       
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the             
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United      
 States Department of Transportation, the           
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-        
 29-0085-128-2011, dated March 10, 2011, for        
 a maximum federal obligation of Four Hundred       
 Twenty Three Thousand Dollars ($423,000),          
 which is filed in the Office of the City Register  
 [Comptroller Document No. 62406], for the          
 reimbursement of direct costs associated with      
 implementing the Part 139 Interactive Training     
 System; and containing an emergency clause.        
             Board Bill No. 48                      
      An Ordinance recommended and                  
 approved by the Board of Estimate and              
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the        
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of        
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter        
 into and execute on behalf of the City the         
 "First Amendment To Lambert-St. Louis              
 International Airport(R) Development               
 Agreement (Northern Tract Site)" (the "First       
 Amendment") to the Development Agreement           
 AL-479, dated March 1, 2010 (the                   
 "Development Agreement"), authorized by            
 Ordinance 68558 approved January 29, 2010,         
 between the City and Aero St. Louis, LLC, a        
 limited liability company of the State of          
 Delaware (the "Developer"); the First              
 Amendment to the Development Agreement,            
 which is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT             
 "1" and made a part hereto, was approved by        
 the City's Airport Commission, and its terms       
 are more fully described in Section One of         
 this Ordinance; containing a severability          
 clause; and containing an emergency clause.        
             Board Bill No. 49                      
      An Ordinance recommended and                  
 approved by the Airport Commission and the         
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment                
 authorizing a Seventh Supplemental                 
 Appropriation in the total amount of One           
 Hundred Forty One Thousand Dollars                 
 ($141,000) from the Airport Development            
 Fund established under authority of Ordinance      
 59286, Section 13, approved October 26,            
 1984, into the Airport Schedule F CIP Project      
 Ordinance 67357, approved December 19,             
 2006, as amended, for the payment of costs         
 for work and services authorized therein; and      
 containing an emergency clause.                    
            Board Bill No. 50                   
       An Ordinance, recommended and            
 approved by the Airport Commission and the     
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment            
 authorizing a supplemental appropriation and   
 set apart in the total amount of Two Million   
 Three Hundred Twenty-three Thousand            
 Dollars ($2,323,000) from the Airport          
 Development Fund established under             
 Ordinance 59286 approved October 26, 1984,     
 to the "Annual Budget" established under       
 authority of Ordinance No. 68643 approved      
 June 25, 2010 for the fiscal year beginning    
 July 1, 2010 and ending June 30, 2011, for     
 current expenses of the government as detailed 
 in EXHIBIT "1" which is attached hereto and    
 incorporated herein; and containing an         
 emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 52                   
       An Ordinance recommended and             
 approved by the Board of Estimate and          
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the    
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller for   
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter    
 into and execute on behalf of the City an      
 Airport Use and Lease Agreement with a term    
 ending June 30, 2016 (the "Use Agreement")     
 and, when indicated, an Airport Use and Lease  
 Agreement Cargo Addendum (the "Cargo           
 Addendum") for Lambert- St. Louis              
 International Airport(R) (the "Airport")       
 between the City and executed by any airline   
 operator (the "Airline") listed in             
 ATTACHMENT A to this Ordinance, which          
 is attached hereto and incorporated herein,    
 granting to such Airline certain rights and    
 privileges for the use of the Airport and its  
 facilities subject to the terms, covenants, and
 conditions set forth in the Use Agreement and  
 the Cargo Addendum that were approved by       
 the City's Airport Commission and the City's   
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment, and       
 are attached hereto as ATTACHMENT B and        
 ATTACHMENT C respectively to this              
 Ordinance and made a part hereof; containing   
 a severability clause; and containing an       
 emergency clause.                              
      Mr. Kennedy                               
      Chairman of the Committee                 
      Mr. Carter of the Committee on Public     
 Safety submitted the following report which    
 was read.                                      
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,        
 May 13, 2011.                                  
      To the President of the Board of          
 Aldermen:                                      
      The Committee on Public Safety to         
 whom was referred the following Board Bills,   
 report that they have considered the same and  
 recommend adoption.                            
             Board Bill No. 6                      
   An ordinance prohibiting the issuance of        
any package liquor license for any non-licensed    
premises within the boundaries of the Fifth        
Ward Liquor Control District, as established       
herein, for a period of one year from the          
effective date hereof; containing exceptions       
and allowing, during the moratorium period,        
for the transfer of existing licenses, under       
certain circumstances; and containing an           
emergency clause.                                  
          Board Bill No. 10                        
       (Committee Substitute)                      
      An Ordinance which amends Ordinance          
68536, Section Seven, paragraph 14.06.250(A)       
and Section Nine, paragraph 14.08.190 of the       
Excise Code of the City of St. Louis, to clarify   
that premises where motor vehicle service          
stations exist are limited to five percent (5.0%)  
package licenses; and which amends Ordinance       
68536, Section Nine, paragraph 14.08.060(D)        
and paragraph 14.08.130(C) of The Excise           
Code of the City of St. Louis, to extend           
standing to Aldermen and to current liquor         
licensees; and containing an emergency clause.     
            Board Bill No. 12                      
     An Ordinance authorizing and directing        
the Fire Chief, on behalf of the City of St.       
Louis, to enter into and execute a Grant           
Agreement with the Federal Emergency               
Management Agency, to fund a Staffing for          
Adequate Fire and Emergency Response               
project, upon approval of the Board of             
Estimate and Apportionment, and to expend          
funds by entering into contracts or otherwise      
for grant purposes and containing an               
emergency clause.                                  
            Board Bill No. 37                      
      An ordinance repealing Ordinances            
68840 and 68595 and enacting a new ordinance       
confirming the prohibition of the issuance of      
any package liquor licenses for any premises       
within the boundaries of the Twenty-Fourth         
Ward Liquor Control District, as established       
herein, for a period of three years from the       
effective date hereof; containing an exception     
allowing, during the moratorium period, for        
the transfer of existing licenses, under certain   
circumstances; and containing an emergency         
clause.                                            
     Alderman Carter                               
     Chairman of the Committee                     
           REPORT OF                               
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                          
     None.                                         
           PERFECTION                              
        CONSENT CALENDAR                           
     Mr. Wessels moved that the following          
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,       
be perfected as reported out of Committee          
 with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board            
 Bills No. 4, 5 and 33.                              
      Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.                       
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.             
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                          
      None.                                          
            THIRD READING                            
          CONSENT CALENDAR                           
      None.                                          
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                          
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                           
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                              
        OF BOARD BILLS                               
      None.                                          
          REPORT OF THE                              
      ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                           
      None.                                          
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                           
        CONSENT CALENDAR                             
      President Reed introduced Resolutions          
 No. 54 through 59 and No. 61through 64 and          
 the Clerk was instructed to read same.              
             Resolution No. 54                       
        Bringing It Together Day                     
      WHEREAS, the 31 st annual Older                
 American's Month Celebration is set for the         
 27th day of May 2011. This event entitled           
 "Bringing It Together" is a collaborative           
 partnership between the City of St. Louis           
 parks, Recreation and Forestry Department,          
 St. Louis Area Agency on Aging (SLAAA),             
 Southside Wellness Center and senior citizens       
 centers throughout the City of St. Louis; and       
      WHEREAS, the program, themed                   
 "Older Americans: Connecting the                    
 Community," reflects the continued focus on         
 rallying business, community and health             
 organizations to help seniors avoid the risks       
 of chronic disease, disability and injury; and      
      WHEREAS, the celebration allows older          
 Americans to enjoy a relaxing day at The            
 Muny Opera House in Forest Park with                
 music, awards, dancing, food, health &              
 wellness booths and seminars, and inter-            
 generational activities with youth; and             
       WHEREAS, the partnering area senior           
 centers touch thousands of lives each year by       
 offering in-home services, transportation, meal     
 delivery, exercise and nutrition, and               
 entertainment for our growing elderly               
 population; and                                     
                                                 st  
      WHEREAS, this year marks the 31                
 anniversary of this event which has served as       
 a positive force for institutional changes on       
 behalf of senior citizens at the local, state, and  
 national levels.                                    
       NOW THEREFORE IT BE                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
 deliberations to recognize the 31st Annual          
 Older American's Month Celebration and we           
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to include   
 a copy of this Resolution in the minutes of         
 these proceedings and to prepare a memorial         
 copy for presentation at a time and place           
 deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.                  
 Introduced on May 13th, 2011 by:                    
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
 Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard     
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward        
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward     
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward         
 HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward     
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard    
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward         
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward       
 Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9thWard        
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward         
 Honorable Thomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward           
 Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward          
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard      
 Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward         
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward     
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward           
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward          
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward     
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward           
 HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward       
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward        
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward         
 Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward          
 Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward             
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward       
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward      
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward         
             Resolution No. 55                       
     The St. Louis Chapter of the                    
                 Drifters, Inc.                      
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised that            
 on May 15, 2011 the Young Orators Fest will         
 be presented by the St. Louis Chapter of the        
 Drifters, Inc. at the offices of 100 Black Men      
 of Metropolitan St. Louis; and                      
       WHEREAS, Young Orators are students           
 enrolled in schools in the Metropolitan St.         
 Louis Area. The Young Orators Fest takes its        
 origin from the Brittany Woods Poetry and           
 Public Speaking Club - a labor of love - founded    
 by retired teacher, Drifter Josephine Harvey        
 of the St. Louis Chapter in 1986; and               
       WHEREAS, the primary purpose of               
 this event grew out of the organization's desire    
 to provide a forum by which youngsters could        
 enhance their oratorical skills and various         
 talents and to encourage them to become wiser       
 through exposure to lectures and literary           
selections, and to enrich their ability to express   
themselves before an audience; and                   
      WHEREAS, the St. Louis Chapter of              
the Drifters, Inc., goal is lifting the educational  
aspirations of young people. Promoting and           
demonstrating to the community the                   
oratorical, communication skills, and other          
talents have proven to be both successful and        
gratifying; and                                      
      WHEREAS, in 1998, at the 42nd                  
National Convention of The Drifters,                 
Incorporated, the Orators Fest concept was           
adopted by the Drifters, Inc. as one of its          
national programs; and                               
     WHEREAS, all members of The St.                 
Louis Drifters are truly grateful to President       
William Luster and all the Gentlemen of 100          
Black Men of Metropolitan St. Louis for              
hosting their program.                               
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                 
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our           
deliberations to recognize the St. Louis             
Chapter of the Drifters, Inc. and we further         
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy      
of this Resolution across the minutes of these       
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative           
copy for presentation to our honorees at a           
time and place deemed appropriate by the             
Sponsor.                                             
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:          
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward           
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward         
            Resolution No. 56                        
            100 Black Men of                         
         Metropolitan St. Louis                      
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that             
on May 15, 2011 the Young Orators Fest will          
be presented by the St. Louis Chapter of the         
Drifters, Inc. at the offices of 100 Black Men       
of Metropolitan St. Louis; and                       
      WHEREAS, Young Orators are students            
enrolled in schools in the Metropolitan St.          
Louis Area. The Young Orators Fest takes its         
origin from the Brittany Woods Poetry and            
Public Speaking Club - a labor of love - founded     
by retired teacher, Drifter Josephine Harvey         
of the St. Louis Chapter in 1986; and                
      WHEREAS, the primary purpose of                
this event grew out of the organization's desire     
to provide a forum by which youngsters could         
enhance their oratorical skills and various          
talents and to encourage them to become wiser        
through exposure to lectures and literary            
selections, and to enrich their ability to express   
themselves before an audience; and                   
     WHEREAS, the St. Louis Chapter of               
the Drifters, Inc., goal is lifting the educational  
 aspirations of young people. Promoting and        
 demonstrating to the community the                
 oratorical, communication skills, and other       
 talents have proven to be both successful and     
 gratifying; and                                   
       WHEREAS, in 1998, at the 42nd               
 National Convention of The Drifters,              
 Incorporated, the Orators Fest concept was        
 adopted by the Drifters, Inc. as one of its       
 national programs; and                            
      WHEREAS, all members of The St.              
 Louis Drifters are truly grateful to President    
 William Luster and all the Gentlemen of 100       
 Black Men of Metropolitan St. Louis for           
 hosting their program.                            
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize the 100 Black Men      
 of Metropolitan St. Louis and we further          
 direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy   
 of this Resolution across the minutes of these    
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy for presentation to our honorees at a        
 time and place deemed appropriate by the          
 Sponsor.                                          
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:       
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward         
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward      
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward     
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward    
            Resolution No. 57                      
          World Falun Dafa Day                     
      WHEREAS, May 13, 2011 will mark              
 the 12th anniversary of the World Falun Dafa      
 Day; and                                          
       WHEREAS, Falun Dafa (also called            
 Falun Gong, or just Dafa) is a high-level body,   
 mind, and spirit cultivation practice consisting  
 of exercise, meditation and teaching guided by    
 the principles of Truthfulness, Compassion,       
 and Tolerance; and                                
      WHEREAS, Master Li Hongzhi, the              
 founder of Falun Dafa, introduced the practice    
 in China in May of 1992. The practice of          
 Falun Dafa has spread around the world to         
 more than 100 countries; and                      
      WHEREAS, in the United States many           
 men and women have adopted the practice of        
 Falun Dafa; and                                   
      WHEREAS, Falun Dafa is practiced by          
 many people of all ages in Missouri and           
 practitioners note stress reduction, health       
 improvement and spiritual growth; and             
      WHEREAS, all Falun Dafa activities,          
 including classes and practices, are offered by   
 volunteers and are open to the public free of     
 charge; and                                       
      WHEREAS, Falun Dafa Day will               
 introduce people of the St. Louis to the        
 practice that has helped hundreds of millions   
 across the world improve their health and moral 
 standards, as well as deepen their              
 understanding of life, humanity and the         
 universe.                                       
       NOW THEREFORE IT BE                       
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize the World Falun      
 Dafa Day and we further direct the Clerk of     
 this Board to include a copy of this Resolution 
 in the minutes of these proceedings and to      
 prepare a memorial copy for presentation at a   
 time and place deemed appropriate by the        
 Sponsor.                                        
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:     
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward       
            Resolution No. 58                    
         Miss Mia Kenna Davis                    
      WHEREAS, the St. Louis Department          
 of Health and the St. Louis Public Schools      
 Community Education is hosting an Asthma        
 Healthy Homes Event Thursday, May 12th          
 on behalf of Miss Mia Kenna Davis: and          
       WHEREAS, Mia Kenna Davis was              
 born March 30, 2003. At the time of her         
 death, January 2011, she was seven years old.   
 She departed this life from Children's Hospital 
 in St. Louis; and                               
      WHEREAS, Mia attended Walbridge            
 Elementary School and was in the second grade.  
 She was known as the girl with the warm hugs,   
 because whenever she saw you she wanted a       
 hug. She was a very lovable child, and anyone   
 and everyone who met her loved her; and         
       WHEREAS, Mia was always a good            
 helper and stayed after school to help her      
 teachers prepare for the next day. Mia also     
 loved to watch the Disney Channel with her      
 sisters and hang out with her brothers; and     
      WHEREAS, left to cherish her memory        
 her parents Janesha Powell and Mike Davis,      
 three sisters, Daniese Powell, Tanesha          
 Courtney and Meliah Davis; three brothers,      
 Tobias Courtney Jr., Terrell Courtney and       
 Mike Davis, Jr.; two grandmothers, Fannie       
 Powell and Linda Gray, two aunts Danielle       
 and Tiffany Powell and two uncles, Terrence     
 Powell and Brandon Bray, along with a host      
 of cousins and many friends.                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to          
 remember the memory of Mia Kenna Davis          
 and we join with her many friends in            
 expressing our sorrow at her passing, and we    
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes     
of these proceedings and to prepare a memorial   
copy for presentation to the Davis family, at    
a time and place deemed appropriate by the       
Sponsor.                                         
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:      
Honorable Gregory Carter,Alderman 27th Ward      
           Resolution no. 59                     
      Maria del Carmen Jacob                     
     WHEREAS, in 1972 Maria del Carmen           
Jacob came to the United States seeking only     
to contribute to the betterment of America;      
and                                              
      WHEREAS, in 1997 Ms. Jacob                 
partnered with business partner Mike Barton      
to found NextGen Information Services, Inc.      
a leading provider of information technology     
staffing services to Fortune 500 companies,      
in St. Louis and across the nation; and          
      WHEREAS, Ms. Jacob, as President and       
Chief Executive Officer of the NextGen           
corporation with over $40 million dollars in     
revenue and 300 plus employees in six cites      
in the U.S. and India after experiencing         
significant growth in revenue could place her    
world headquarters in major cities throughout    
the world, she has chosen to remain in           
downtown St. Louis; and                          
     WHEREAS, NEXTGEN is a significant           
minority owned business within the city of       
St. Louis with an outstanding record of          
community involvement and supporting other       
minority businesses; and                         
      WHEREAS, NEXTGEN is a leading              
force in the development of St. Louis into a     
21st Century technology driven city, paving      
the way for other businesses and our citizens    
to thrive and prosper.                           
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to congratulate Maria del          
Carmen and the staff of NEXTGEN for being        
shining examples of what hard work and           
determination can accomplish, in a city "that    
works" and we further direct the Clerk of this   
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution        
across the minutes of these proceedings and      
to further prepare a commemorative copy to       
the end that it may be presented to our honoree  
at a time and place deemed appropriate by        
the Sponsor.                                     
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:      
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward      
            Resolution No. 61                      
    Police Officer Sandra Watson                   
       WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
 after 21 years of dedicated service to the City   
 of St. Louis with the Metropolitan Police         
 Department - City of St. Louis, Officer Sandra    
 Watson will retire May 22, 2011; and              
       WHEREAS, Officer Sandra Watson,             
 started with the Police Department on April       
 30, 1990 as a Recruit in Training. Officer        
 Sandra Watson became a commissioned officer       
 on August 23, 1990, where she was assigned        
 to the Sixth District; and                        
      WHEREAS, Officer Watson has served           
 her entire career in the Sixth District, where    
 she served as a School Resource Officer,          
 Nuisance Property Officer and a Pal Boxing        
 Coach; and                                        
      WHEREAS, Officer Watson has served           
 the Sixth District with policing, skills,         
 integrity, and sincere friendship which have      
 earned her the respect and admiration of her      
 fellow officers and citizens of the City of St.   
 Louis; and                                        
      WHEREAS, Officer Watson is looking           
 forward to a well-deserved retirement.            
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Alderman of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in the        
 deliberations to congratulate Officer Sandra      
 Watson for 21 years of commitment and             
 loyalty to the citizens of the City of St. Louis  
 and we wish her peace and happiness in her        
 retirement and we further direct the Clerk of     
 the Board to spread a copy of this Resolution     
 across the minutes of these proceedings and       
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end        
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a      
 time and place deemed appropriate by the          
 Sponsor.                                          
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:       
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward      
            Resolution No. 62                      
 30th Anniversary of Albert Holman                 
               Lodge #179,                         
     Free and Accepted Masons                      
      WHEREAS, the members of the Board            
 of Aldermen of the City of St. Louis always       
 welcome the opportunity to acknowledge            
 milestone events in the history of the Show       
 Me State fraternal organizations; and             
      WHEREAS, Albert Holman Lodge                 
 #179, Free and Accepted Masons, will              
 celebrate the 30th Anniversary of its founding    
 with a gala banquet on Sunday, September 25,      
 2011 at the Catering to You Banquet Center        
 on New Halls Ferry Road in Florissant,            
 Missouri; and                                     
       WHEREAS, organized and chartered by       
 the Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge     
 of Missouri and its Masonic Jurisdiction in     
 July 1981, Albert Holman Lodge #179, F. &       
 A.M. is an esteemed subordinate Lodge of        
 that fraternal institution; and                 
      WHEREAS, located on Olive Street in        
 the City of St. Louis, the Albert Holman Lodge  
 was named after a District Deputy Grand         
 Master of the First Masonic District in the     
 City of St. Louis who served for many years     
 as a man of fortitude, tenacity, sincerity, and 
 integrity until his death on May 14, 1980;      
 and                                             
       WHEREAS, in its thirty (30) years of      
 service, the Albert Holman Lodge has proven     
 its dedication to fostering civic, economic, and
 educational development programs                
 throughout the St. Louis area and has admirably 
 enhanced the lives of the citizens who reside   
 in the region by encouraging citizen            
 participation to civic, charitable, and         
 humanitarian activities; and                    
       WHEREAS, several distinguish              
 members of this honorable board are members     
 of Albert Holman Lodge, namely, Charles Q.      
 Troupe, Freeman Bosley, Sr., and Samuel         
 Moore; plus the former Mayors of the City       
 of St. Louis Freeman Bosley, Jr., Clarence      
 Harmon, former Comptrollers Virvus Jones        
 and John Bass (deceased), and former United     
 States Marshal Floyd Kimbrough (deceased)       
 and the current United States Marshal William   
 Siebert along with many other notable           
 individuals in the St. Louis area; and          
      WHEREAS, as a valued component of          
 the Prince Hall Grand Lodge, the Albert         
 Holman Lodge shares in the history of that      
 organization which traces its roots to fifteen  
 founding members who were Master Masons         
 in the British Military Lodge during the        
 Revolutionary War; and                          
       WHEREAS, challenging men strive for       
 a well balanced and stable life, the Albert     
 Holman Lodge participates in the grand design   
 of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge to promote       
 positive progress for Black Missourians; and    
      WHEREAS, the charter member of this        
 Lodge were Arthur Ransom (deceased) Paul        
 Gulley (deceased) Karl J. Reid, John Morgan,    
 Squire Hunter (deceased), Irvin Simon, Willie   
 Smith, and Ivory Claxton; and                   
      WHEREAS, since our organization in         
 addition to the ones mentions above, we have    
 loss the following members to the Great         
 Architect of the Universe, William Smith, Joe   
 Dotson, Jr., Roosevelt Tennione, James          
 Chambers, Rev. Herbert Becton, Dewey            
 Douthet, Sylvester Jackson, Terry Adail,        
 Edward Buckner, Tracy Coleman, Michael          
Wrice, James Wright, Michael Witherspoon,             
Fred Hogan and Gregory Tayborn; and                   
      WHEREAS, Philip Jackson is serving              
as the twenty-first (21) Worshipful Master            
of Albert Holman Lodge #179, F. & A.M. since          
its organization.                                     
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
deliberations to unanimously applaud the              
diligent service endeavors of Albert Holman           
Lodge and to extend this legislative body's           
sincerest congratulations upon its attaining the      
30th Anniversary of its founding and we               
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread      
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes          
of these proceedings and to prepare a                 
commemorative copy to the end that it may             
be presented to our honorees at a time and            
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:           
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard       
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward          
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward       
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward            
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward            
Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward               
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
            Resolution No. 63                         
      Mrs. Etta Mae Henderson                         
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised of                
the 100th Birthday Celebration of Mrs. Etta           
Mae Henderson to be held on Monday, May               
16, 2011 at 2pm; and                                  
      WHEREAS, this festive celebration will          
be held at the Mercy Seat Apartments located          
at 4452 Washington in the 18th Ward where             
she lives, and                                        
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Henderson was born                
on May 17, 1911 in Mississippi and moved              
to St. Louis in 1929 and became an active             
member of the Mount Zion Church in                    
Wellston; and                                         
     WHEREAS, Mrs. Henderson later                    
joined the Compton Hill Baptist Church where          
she is presently an active member working             
with children and serving the community, and          
     WHEREAS, Mrs. Henderson was                      
married to Mr. Aaron Henderson and worked             
for many years in the Superior Laundry and            
the Staler Hotel; and                                 
     WHEREAS, living through the great                
depression, WWII, legislated segregation, Jim         
Crow, the Civil Rights Movement and other             
 social change movements Mrs. Henderson has            
 seen many, many changes and has lived through         
 historical events that others can only read           
 about; and                                            
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Henderson is known                 
 by her friends and family as a jovial, active         
 and uplifting person brining joy and smiles to        
 those she meets, live and work with.                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to congratulate and recognize           
 Mrs. Etta Mae Henderson on occasion of her            
 100th Birthday and wish her continued peace,          
 good health and happiness and by adoption             
 of this resolution wish to join in the festivities    
 of her birth and we further direct the Clerk of       
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution        
 across the minutes of these proceedings and           
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end            
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a          
 time and place deemed appropriate by the              
 Sponsor.                                              
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:           
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward             
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
             Resolution No. 64                         
              Wild Bill Young                          
      WHEREAS, Wild Bill Young, a St. Louis            
 born country music sensation, is climbing the         
 ladder of industry success at great speed; and        
       WHEREAS, Wild Bill has participated             
 in numerous civic & charitable events lending         
 his talent to support local causes such as the        
 St. Louis Boxing Donation Fund and Spruill's          
 Christmas benefit for needy families, to name         
 a few; and                                            
      WHEREAS, Wild Bill Young has                     
 appeared on Fox 2 News, The Best of STL,              
 and has performed live at St. Louis City Hall,        
 The Ambassador, The Broadway, and Wild                
 Country; and                                          
       WHEREAS, Wild Bill's authentic, yet             
 original country sound is rooted in his singing       
 along to country music radio stations during          
 boyhood cross-country trips with his father           
 combined with his urban upbringing in St.             
 Louis; and                                            
      WHEREAS, Wild Bill Young represents              
 well St. Louis' long history of music artists         
 and has a style that brings people of diverse         
 backgrounds together, and                             
      WHEREAS, Wild Bill Young is                      
 undertaking the next step to super-stardom            
 by heading to the country music Mecca of              
 Nashville, Tennessee next weekend to appear           
 on the Billy Block Show and to appear live            
 throughout Nashville, along with his band, the        
 Outlaws, for various live performances; and           
      WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen                 
 wishes Wild Bill Young success in all of his        
 entertainment endeavors.                            
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our         
 deliberations to wish Wild Bill Young well on       
 his travels and thank him for all he has already    
 done for the City of St. Louis and we direct        
 the Clerk of this Board to prepare a                
 commemorative copy of this Resolution to            
 the end that it may be presented to our             
 honorees at a time and place deemed                 
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                         
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:         
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward     
      Unanimous consent having been                  
 obtained Resolutions No. 54 through 59 and          
 No. 61through 64 stood considered.                  
      President Reed moved that Resolutions          
 No. 54 through 59 and No. 61through 64 be           
 adopted, at this meeting of the Board.              
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                       
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
            FIRST READING OF                         
              RESOLUTIONS                            
      Mr. Conway introduced Resolution No.           
 60 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.       
             Resolution No. 60                       
       WHEREAS, Ordinance 65435,                     
 approved February 15, 2002, established, in         
 part the "Animal Protection Facility                
 Restoration Fund" for the purpose of paying         
 the costs related to the construction and           
 maintenance of a new animal protection              
 facility to be operated by the Department of        
 Health; and                                         
       WHEREAS, Section Four of such                 
 Ordinance provides that Funds maintained in         
 "Animal Protection Facility Restoration"            
 account shall be used only to pay for all costs     
 related to the construction of a new Animal         
 Protection Facility and for materials and           
 equipment required to properly maintain such        
 facility; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Section Five of such                 
 Ordinance provides that the Director of             
 Health and Hospitals shall recommend the use        
 of said funds to the Health and Human Services      
 Committee of the Board of Aldermen which            
 shall determine the capital improvements for        
 which the funds should be used, which use           
 shall be consistent with this ordinance, and        
 the Director, upon resolution passed by said        
 Committee shall have the authority to prepare       
 the necessary vouchers for such use of funds        
 and the Comptroller; and                            
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance             
65435, the Director has forwarded her           
recommendations to the Chairman of the          
Health and Human Services Committee; and        
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance             
65435 the Health and Human Services             
Committee does hereby approve the               
recommendations of the Director for the         
appropriation of the Animal Protection          
Facility Restoration Fund Account funds         
attached hereto and Exhibit A, which is         
incorporated herein by reference.               
      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that               
copies of this resolution are to be maintained  
by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed  
in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and     
delivered to the Director of Parks, Recreation  
and Forestry, the Budget Division and the       
Comptroller.                                    
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2011 by:     
Honorable Stephen Conway,Alderman 8th Ward      
     Mr. Conway moved that Resolution No.       
60 be referred to the Committee on Health       
and Human Services.                             
     Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
        SECOND READING OF                       
           RESOLUTIONS                          
     Mr. Roddy introduced Resolution No.        
50 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.   
           Resolution No. 50                    
     WHEREAS, Ordinance 64994,                  
approved July 14, 2000, established, in part    
the Metropolitan Park and Recreation District   
Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust fund       
(the "Metro Parks Trust Fund"), to consist      
of two accounts, namely a Major Parks           
Capital Improvements Account and a              
Neighborhood Parks Capital Improvements         
Account; and                                    
      WHEREAS, Section Nine of such             
Ordinance provides that no revenue in the       
Neighborhood parks Capital Improvements         
Account shall be appropriated in the City's     
annual Budget ordinance until and unless the    
Parks and Environmental Maters Committee        
of the Board of Aldermen (Parks Committee)      
approves by resolution the recommendations      
of the Director of Parks, Recreation and        
Forestry (the "Director") to the City's Budget  
Division for such Neighborhood Parks Capital    
Improvements Account annual budget              
appropriation; and                              
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance             
64994, the Director has forwarded his           
recommendations to the Chair of the Parks       
Committee;                                      
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance             
 64994 the Parks and Environmental Matters       
 Committee does hereby approve the               
 recommendations of the Director for the         
 appropriation of Neighborhood Parks Capital     
 Improvements Account funds for the Fiscal       
 Year 2012 attached hereto and Exhibit A, which  
 is incorporated herein by reference.            
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that               
 copies of this resolution are to be maintained  
 by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed  
 in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and     
 delivered to the Director of Parks, Recreation  
 and Forestry, the Budget Division and the       
 Comptroller.                                    
 Introduced on the 6th day of May, 2011 by:      
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward       
      Mr. Roddy reported that Resolution         
 No. 50 was adopted by the Committee on          
 Parks and Environmental Matters.                
      Mr. Roddy introduced Resolution No.        
 51 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.   
            Resolution No. 51                    
      WHEREAS, Ordinance 67477,                  
 approved March 5, 2007, established a special   
 fund to be known as the Neighborhood Park       
 Fund as an amendment to a lease agreement       
 between the City of St. Louis and Barnes-       
 Jewish Hospital; and                            
      WHEREAS, Section Eight of such             
 Ordinance provides that no revenue in the       
 Neighborhood Park Fund Account shall be         
 appropriated in the City's annual Budget        
 ordinance until and unless the Parks and        
 Environmental Maters Committee of the           
 Board of Aldermen (Parks Committee)             
 approves by resolution the recommendations      
 of the Director of Parks, Recreation and        
 Forestry (the Director) to the City's Budget    
 Division for such Neighborhood Parks Capital    
 Improvements Account annual budget              
 appropriation; and                              
      WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance             
 67477, the Director has forwarded his           
 recommendations to the Chair of the Parks       
 Committee;                                      
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance             
 67477 the Parks and Environmental Matters       
 Committee does hereby approve the               
 recommendations of the Director for the         
 appropriation of Neighborhood Parks Capital     
 Improvements Account funds for the Fiscal       
 Year 2012 attached hereto and Exhibit A, which  
 is incorporated herein by reference.            
      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that                
 copies of this resolution are to be maintained  
 by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed 
 in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and    
 delivered to the Director of Parks, Recreation 
 and Forestry, the Budget Division and the      
 Comptroller.                                   
 Introduced on the 6th day of May, 2011 by:     
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward      
      Mr. Roddy reported that Resolution        
 No. 51 was adopted by the Committee on         
 Parks and Environmental Matters.               
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                       
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                     
      None.                                     
           ANNOUNCEMENTS                        
      None.                                     
         EXCUSED ALDERMEN                       
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the           
 following aldermen due to their necessary      
 absence: Ms. Flowers, Mr. Villa and Ms.        
 Florida.                                       
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
              ADJOURNMENT                       
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under       
 rules to return May 20, 2011.                  
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Respectfully submitted,                   
      David W. Sweeney                          
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                  
   BOARD OF                                     
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
          REGULAR MEETING                       
       St. Louis, MO - May 17, 2011             
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                    
 Present: Directors Skouby, Siedhoff, Bess,     
 Rice-Walker, Bryson and President Bradley.     
      Absent: Director Waelterman (excused).    
       Request of the Director of Streets to be 
 excused from the Regular Meeting of May        
 17, 2011 was read and leave of absence granted.
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May     
 10, 2011 were unanimously approved.            
       Communications, reports, recommenda-     
 tions and documents were submitted by Board    
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:   
                 LETTINGS                       
      One sealed proposals for the public work  
 advertised under Letting No. 8472 - South      
Grand Blvd. Streetscape Improvements -             
Phase 2,                                           
     Three sealed proposals for the public         
work advertised under Letting No. 8475 -           
North Tucker Blvd. Reconstruction Phase 2,         
    Three sealed proposals for the public          
work advertised under Letting No. 8477 -           
America's Center HVAC Upgrade South                
Expansion and,                                     
    Three sealed proposals for the public          
work advertised under Letting No. 8478 -           
Walnut Park Neighborhood Infrastructure            
Improvements were received, publicly               
opened, read and referred to the President.        
                PRESIDENT                          
     Detailed plans and specifications for the     
following work approved and the Board set          
date of June 21, 2011 for opening bids for         
work and Secretary instructed to insert proper     
advertisement therefore:                           
     Letting No. 8481 - Concourse and              
Terminal Generators at Lambert-St. Louis           
International Airport(R)                           
     Preliminary approval given and 10 days        
granted in which to sign same:                     
     Letting No. 8424 - Aloe Plaza Lighting        
Enhancements TGB Inc., 1104 So. Jefferson          
Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63104, Amount:               
$133,315.00                                        
     Addendum No. 3 to the plans and               
specifications for Letting No. 8475 - North        
Tucker Blvd. Reconstruction Phase 2                
approved and made part of the original plans.      
      Supplemental Agreement No. 3 to PSA          
No. 1035 - Rehabilitation and/or Reconstruc-       
tion of Grand Avenue Viaduct over Mill Creek       
Valley approved and President authorized to        
execute same.                                      
     Supplemental Agreement No. 2 to PSA           
No. 1073 - Environmental Engineering               
Support Consultant at Lambert-St. Louis            
International Airport approved and President       
authorized to execute same.                        
     Soldiers Memorial Venue Permit                
Agreement with Festival Partners, LLC for          
use of Soldier's Memorial Park, which consist      
of Poelker and Kauffman Parks, and                 
surrounding streets bordered by Market,            
Tucker, 14th and Pine for the purpose of           
holding event May 25, 2011 and ending May          
31, 2011.                                          
PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF                         
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                       
      2 Permits for Union Electric d/b/a           
AmerenUE ordered approved, subject to              
certain conditions as follows: 117441, to install  
new 35' cl3 pole and make connections at 1207      
 Sidney and, 117369, to set 40' cl3 pole and       
 connect 2 sets of triplex, new meter and          
 transformer in alley behind Menard between        
 Victor and Barton.                                
       4 permits for AT and T Missouri ordered     
 approved, subject to certain conditions as        
 follows: 117457, start at existing AT and T       
 manhole in front of 5546 Dr. Martin Luther        
 King, saw cut for 20' east then turn and bore     
 north for 323' ending at new Theodosia Street     
 being built by the developer of the new           
 Arlington Grove development, total right-of-      
 way footage is 345', 117446, bore new cooper      
 cable from manhole 3046 at 8737 Goodfellow        
 65' east then north 161' to rear of 8730          
 Goodfellow for cable relief to Ameren, 117486,    
 place a fiber cable from existing manhole in      
 asphalt raised shoulder on east side of building  
 7901 Michigan at Virginia to new cabinet          
 approximately 40' to the north on west of         
 Primm. Total right-of-way footage is 40' and,     
 117485, bore new cooper cable from pole in        
 rear of 6201 McPherson 75' east to existing       
 manhole No. 2006 to replace a defective cable.    
      2 permits for Charter Communications         
 ordered approved, subject to certain              
 conditions as follows: 117484, start on east      
 side of Macklind, 200' north of Manchester        
 at Ameren pole No. 91895, place 2" conduit        
 crossing under Macklind due west 75'              
 containing a .625 coax feeder cable to service    
 new Charter business customer at 1329             
 Macklind and, 117470, start at northeast          
 corner of Kemper and Hereford at Ameren           
 pole, go underground 74' west to northwest        
 corner of same intersection to Ameren pole        
 and place 2" conduit in order to place .625       
 coax cable to replace damaged cable at 5011       
 Kemper.                                           
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                           
   UTILITIES, STREETS, PARKS,                      
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                         
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                        
       2 Permits ordered approved, subject to      
 certain conditions as follows: 117504, Festival   
 Partners LLC, hold event May 26-31, 2011          
 at Kauffman and Poelker Parks and, 117487,        
 St. Louis Community Empowerment                   
 Foundation, hold event August 13, 2011 at         
 Chambers Park.                                    
         DIRECTORS OF                              
    PUBLIC UTILITIES, PARKS,                       
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                         
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                        
       2 Permits ordered approved, subject to      
 certain conditions as follows: 117335, Humane     
 Society of Missouri, hold event May 19-21,        
 2011 at Cricket Field in Forest Park and,         
 117354, New Belgium Brewing Company,              
 hold event May 19-20, 2011 at Government          
 Hall in Forest Park.                              
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
       Application No. 117495, Sensient         
 Colors Inc., consolidate land at No. Market,   
 Glasgow, Montgomery and Leffingwell in         
 C.B. 1898 and 1899 ordered approved, subject   
 to certain conditions.                         
      Application No. 117379, Land              
 Reutilization Authority, subdivide land at     
 1301-1319 Clinton, 1221 Clinton and 2101-      
 2115 No. 13th Street ordered denied, violation 
 of Board Order No. 720 Amended.                
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
       2 Permits ordered approved, subject to   
 certain conditions as follows: 117496, East    
 Loop-Parkview Gardens Special Business         
 District, encroach with banners on 26 light    
 poles in the 5900, 5800 and part of the 5700   
 blocks of Delmar and, 117505, Missouri         
 Botanical Garden, temporarily replace 6        
 existing banners with a set of 6-30" x 60" wide
 banners on the south side of the 4300 block of 
 Shaw between Tower Grove and Alfred.           
       Application No. 117500, La Gra Italian   
 Tapas, encroach with sidewalk cafe (6 tables   
 and 12 chairs) with liquor at 1223-37 Tamm     
 ordered denied by reason of the fact that the  
 location of tables and chairs at curb would    
 inhibit access to vehicles opening and closing 
 doors.                                         
      DIRECTORS OF STREETS,                     
      PARKS, RECREATION AND                     
          FORESTRY AND                          
      HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                      
       Application No. 117491, Hamilton         
 Heights Neighborhood Organization Inc. -       
 22nd Ward Family Reunion Picnic, hold event    
 July 30, 2011 at Barrett Brother Parks ordered 
 approved, subject to certain conditions.       
       DIRECTOR OF PARKS,                       
    RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
      Request for Proposal and Rules and        
 Regulations Governing the Operation of         
 Concessions for the O'Fallon Park Boathouse    
 ordered approved.                              
      Application No. 117506, J and M           
 Display, hold event May 21, 2011 in Forest     
 Park at the World's Fair Pavilion ordered      
 approved, subject to certain conditions.       
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      14 Conditional Use Permits ordered        
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,  
 per Board Order No. 766: Application No.       
 117518, 6100-02 Delmar and Application No.     
 117522, 6165 Delmar ordered tabled.            
      117513, 5201 Thrush, construct parking    
 lot (per plans) for church, 117514, 3853       
 Lindell, computer repair business (home        
occupancy wavier), 117515, 3761 Lee,            
janitorial business (office use only) home      
occupancy wavier, 117516, 5231 Mardel,          
fresh produce business (home occupancy          
wavier, 117517, 7101 So. Broadway, full drink   
bar, sit down and carryout restaurant with      
rear patio, 117519, 5916 Delmar, full drink     
bar and restaurant with outside patio, 117520,  
5210 Robin, janitorial business (office use     
only) home occupancy wavier, 117521, 5572       
Natural Bridge, daycare, 117523, 7104 Emilie,   
lawn care business (office use only) home       
occupancy wavier, 117524, 924 Catalpa, lawn     
service (office use only) home occupancy        
wavier, 117525, 3009 Abner, freight brokerage   
business (office use only) home occupancy       
wavier, 117526, 1611 So. Grand, veterinary      
clinic, pet grooming, boarding, kenneling and   
pet daycare and, 117527, 1117 No. Grand,        
daycare.                                        
1 Conditional Use Denied as follows: 117528,    
3443 Watson Road, convenience store with        
full package liquor (no cooking).               
    Addendum No. 1 to Agenda Items for          
May 17, 2011 ordered approved.                  
     Agenda Items for May 17, 2011 ordered      
approved.                                       
    The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,        
May 24, 2011.                                   
                Richard T. Bradley, P.E.        
                President                       
ATTEST:                                         
                Cherise D. Thomas               
                Secretary                       
           Office of the                        
      Board of Public Service                   
         City of St. Louis                      
      SEALED PROPOSALS will be received         
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by    
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market        
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,    
St. Louis, Missouri time on June 07, 2011 at    
which time they will be publicly opened and     
read, viz:                                      
LETTING NO. 8480                                
JOB TITLE: AMERICA'S CENTER HVAC                
& LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS                         
ORIGINAL BUILDING                               
DEPOSIT: 200,870.00                             
     Drawings, Specifications and Form of       
Contract may be examined at the Office of the   
President of the Board of Public Service,       
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be      
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-          
bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).   
      Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
 Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
 three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
 ONE HUNDRED dollars ($100.00) for each             
 set.                                               
      Purchased sets become the property of         
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
 be made.                                           
       Proposals must be made on blank forms        
 to be furnished by the President of the Board      
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
 Room 208 City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
 where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
 show the products of the respective unit prices    
 and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
 in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
 Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
 addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
 Sum for which he will perform all of the           
 estimated work, as requested by the general        
 requirements and covenants, specifications,        
 and plans.                                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each bid must be accompanied by a             
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The          
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
       The Contract shall provide that not less     
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
 of workmen needed in the actual construction       
 work on the site of the construction job herein 
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing   
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall  
 be paid to all workmen.                         
      All labor to be performed under this       
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of  
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the   
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                   
       The right of the Board of Public Service  
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
     By order of the Board of Public Service,    
 May 3, 2011.                                    
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.       
                  President                      
 ATTEST:                                         
                  Cherise D. Thomas              
                  Secretary                      
             Office of the                       
        Board of Public Service                  
           City of St. Louis                     
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received         
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at    
 the Office of the Board of Public Service,      
 Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M., June      
 21, 2011 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which     
 time they will be publicly opened and read,     
 viz:                                            
 LETTING NO. 8481                                
 JOB TITLE: Concourse and Terminal               
 Generators at Lambert-St. Louis                 
 International Airport(R)                        
 DEPOSIT: $53,238.00                             
       Plans, specifications and general         
 information may be obtained in the Office of    
 the Assistant Director of Airports for          
 Engineering, 11495 Navaid Rd., Bridgeton,       
 MO 63044, 4th Floor, from 8:30 AM to 4:00       
 PM, Monday through Friday and upon              
 payment of ONE HUNDRED dollars                  
 ($100.00) for each package. Purchased sets      
 become the property of the prospective bidder   
 and no refunds will be made. Information        
 concerning this project may be obtained by      
 telephoning (314) 551-5055. There will be a     
 Mandatory pre-bid meeting on May 31, 2011       
 at 10:00 AM at the above address.               
       Proposals must be made on blank forms     
 to be furnished by the President of the Board   
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to     
 Room 208, City Hall.                            
       Each bidder shall specify in his proposal 
 in figures, without interlineations, alterations
 or erasures, a unit price for each of those     
 items where so called for in the proposal, and  
 shall show the products of the respective unit  
prices and estimated quantities. He shall also   
show in figures bid proposals for all items on   
which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,       
in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the   
Lump Sum for which he will perform all of        
the estimated work, as requested by the          
general requirements and covenants,              
specifications and plans.                        
  In case of a discrepancy between the gross     
sum shown in the proposal and that obtained      
by the addition of the bid prices as applied to  
be basic items, the latter shall prevail.        
     Each bid must be accompanied by a           
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,        
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,      
for the amount of Deposit required, as           
heretofore stated.                               
    All work under this contract will be paid    
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of       
the work completed, less a retained amount       
of ten percent (10%). Final payment, including   
all retained percentages, will be made within    
ten (10) days after completion of all work       
and final acceptance by the City.                
      "The City of St. Louis hereby notifies     
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure    
that in any contract entered into pursuant to    
this advertisement, minority business            
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity    
to submit bids in response to this invitation    
and will not be discriminated against on the     
grounds of race, color or national origin in     
consideration for an award."                     
      The contract shall provide that not less   
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in      
the City of St. Louis as determined bythe        
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations     
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type  
of workmen needed in the actual construction     
work on the site of the construction job herein  
authorized, as well as the general prevailing    
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall   
be paid to all workmen.                          
     All labor to be performed under this        
contract shall be subject to the provisions of   
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the    
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.              
   The right of the Board of Public Service to   
reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.    
    By order of the Board of Public Service,     
May 17, 2011.                                    
                Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                President                        
ATTEST:                                          
                Cherise D. Thomas                
                Secretary                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
       A public hearing will be held by the        
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
 Wednesday, June 1, 2011 in Room 208 City          
 Hall to consider the following:                   
      APPEAL #9769 - Appeal filed by The           
 Shaved Duck, from the determination of the        
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an         
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant        
 to operate a restaurant and full drink bar with   
 outside seating at 2900 Virginia. WARD 6          
 #AO489651-11 ZONE: "B" - Two Family               
 Dwelling District                                 
      APPEAL #9770 - Appeal filed by Qwik          
 Loans, from the determination of the Building     
 Commissioner in the denial of an incidental       
 business occupation waiver authorizing the        
 Appellant to operate a short term loan            
 business at 3815 S. Kingshighway. WARD 10         
 Incidental Business Occupancy Waiver              
 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial               
 District                                          
       APPEAL #9771 - Appeal filed by Cafe         
 Mochi, from the determination of the Building     
 Commissioner in the denial of a building          
 permit authorizing the Appellant to complete      
 interior alterations for the expansion of a bar/  
 restaurant with patio at 3221 S. Grand to 3225    
 S. Grand. WARD 15 #AB489759-11                    
 ZONE: "H" - Area Commercial District              
       APPEAL #9772 - Appeal filed by Joey         
 Neal & David Morris, from the determination       
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of     
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant       
 to do interior and exterior alterations to        
 construct a bedroom addition and an attached      
 garage at the rear to an existing residence, per  
 plans, at 1539 Vail Place. WARD 6                 
 #AB489408-11 ZONE: "B" - Two Family               
 Dwelling District                                 
       APPEAL #9773 - Appeal filed by The          
 Del Coronado Apartments, from the                 
 determination of the Building Commissioner        
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing    
 the Appellant to do interior alterations to       
 convert the second floor office space to an       
 additional eleven residential units, per plans,   
 at 4933-39 West Pine. WARD 17                     
 #AB489274-11 ZONE: "H" - Area                     
 Commercial District                               
       APPEAL #9774 - Appeal filed by AGM          
 Inc, from the determination of the Building       
 Commissioner in the denial of a building          
 permit authorizing the Appellant to do interior   
 and exterior alterations to an existing two       
 family dwelling and adding a two story            
 addition to the rear of the building, per plans,  
 at 1419 Destrehan. WARD 3 #AB489086-11            
 ZONE: "C" - Multiple Family Dwelling              
 District                                          
      In accordance with the provisions of        
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
     By authority of the Board of                 
 Adjustment.                                      
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                     
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
       A public hearing will be held by the       
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
 Wednesday, June 8, 2011 in Room 208 City         
 Hall to consider the following:                  
       APPEAL #9775 - Appeal filed by Aaron       
 Superstar Limousines, from the determination     
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of    
 an occupancy permit authorizing the              
 Appellant to have outside storage of             
 limousines at 1627 McCausland. WARD 24           
 #AO489732-11 ZONE: "A" - Single                  
 Family Dwelling District                         
       APPEAL #9776 - Appeal filed by             
 Nonna's Homestyle Foods, from the                
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of an occupancy permit             
 authorizing the Appellant to operate a           
 manufacturing business with wholesale and        
 retail of food products at 6814 Gravois.         
 WARD 12 #AO489660-11 ZONE: "F" -                 
 Neighborhood Commercial District                 
      APPEAL #9777 - Appeal filed by PW           
 Pizza Company, from the determination of         
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a     
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 recover existing awning with graphics, per       
 plans, at 2017 Chouteau. WARD 6                  
 #AB489279-11 ZONE: "J" - Industrial              
 District                                         
       APPEAL #9778 - Appeal filed by             
 Patrick & Tammy Theodore, from the               
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to construct a shed and            
 clubhouse, per plans, at 5646 Nottingham.        
 WARD 16 #AB486362-10 ZONE: "A" -                 
 Single Family Dwelling District                  
       APPEAL #9733 - Appeal filed by             
 Paraquad Inc, from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install two illuminated wall signs and one non-  
 illuminated joint identification ground sign, per
 plans, at 5240 Oakland. WARD 17                  
 #AB488088-11 ZONE: "H" - Area                    
 Commercial District                              
       APPEAL #9752 - Appeal filed by             
 Hazzard Moving & Storage, from the               
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to install one non-illuminated     
wall sign, per plans, at 3728 Market. (Table)  
WARD 17 #AB488741-11 ZONE: "K" -               
Unrestricted District                          
     In accordance with the provisions of      
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
    By authority of the Board of               
Adjustment.                                    
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                   
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
     There wil not be a Conditional Use        
Hearing held in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30     
a.m. on Thursday, June 2, 2011.                
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
     A Conditional Use Hearing will be held    
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on          
Thursday, June 9, 2011 on the following        
conditional uses:                              
     1444 Sullivan - Home Occupancy            
Waiver - Corey Contracting, LLC (General       
Contracting/Office Use Only) "D"-Multiple      
Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 5            
     4364 Swan - Home Occupancy Waiver         
-LL Home Improvement, LLC (Construction/       
Office Use Only) "B" Two Family Dwelling       
District. Lf Ward 17                           
      4575 Varrelmann - Home Occupancy         
Waiver - To Lend A Hand Home Services,         
Inc. (In Home Service Company/Office Use       
Only) "A" Single Family Dwelling District.     
Te Ward 14                                     
     3925 Lexington - Home Occupancy           
Waiver - San Painting, LLC (Paints/Drywall/    
Office Use Only) "B" Two Family Dwelling       
District. Te Ward 21                           
     3700 Gustine - Home Occupancy             
Waiver - B & D Wrecking (Demolition/Office     
Use Only) "F" Neighborhood Commercial          
District. Lf Ward 15                           
     2900 Prairie - #AO-489767-11-K - Life     
Ministry Center (Community Center/             
Teaching Wing NE Hallway "F"                   
Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward      
3                                              
     6421 Gravois - #AO-489885-11 - The        
Bistro (Full Drink/Carryout Rest. w/Front      
Seating & Catering) "F" Neighborhood           
Commercial District. Te Ward 12                
     6016-20 S. Grand - #AO-489866-11 -        
Cecil Whitakers (Sitdown/Carryout Rest. w/     
15% Wine & Beer/Side Patio/Exp.) "F"           
Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward      
11                                             
      3144 Morganford - #AO-489883-11-             
 Ragtime Tattoo (Tattoo   Parlor)      "F"         
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward         
 10                                                
      5510 S. Kingshighway - #AO-489951-           
 11 - Novella, LLC (Retail Sales Books/            
 Flowers/Coffee Shop/Outside Seating/No            
 Cooking) "F" Neighborhood Commercial              
 District. Te Ward 13                              
     3453 Hampton - #AO-490014-11-                 
 Smiles Coffeehouse (Coffeehouse/No                
 Cooking/Sidewalk Seating) "F"- Neighborhood       
 Commercial District. Te Ward 23                   
      1164-66 N. Kingshighway - #AB-               
 489981-11 - St. James Christian Spiritual         
 Church (Interior & Exterior Alterations plans     
 for Daycare) "F"-Neighborhood Commercial          
 District. Te Ward 18                              
   REQUEST FOR                                     
    PROPOSALS                                      
          CITY OF ST. LOUIS                        
   PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY                    
       The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified  
 bidders to submit Proposals for the Operation     
 of a Concession Stand and Boat Rental facility    
 in O'Fallon Park.                                 
      Bid documents may be obtained at the         
 Parks, Recreation & Forestry Administration       
 Building, 5600 Clayton Road in Forest Park,       
 St. Louis, MO 63110 or downloaded from            
 the City's website at http://stlouis-mo.gov/      
 government.                                       
      A Facility Walk-through can be               
 scheduled by any prospective bidder by            
 making a written request no later than June       
 15, 2011 to Mr. Gary Bess, Director of Parks,     
 Recreation and Forestry, 5600 Clayton Avenue      
 in Forest Park, St. Louis, MO 63110.              
      Sealed Bids will be received until 5:00      
 P.M., St. Louis, MO time, June 30, 2011, at       
 the Department of Parks, Recreation &             
 Forestry.                                         
      The City of St. Louis is an Equal            
 Opportunity Employer, and Bidders shall           
 comply with Mayor's Executive Order #28,          
 as amended.                                       
       The City of St. Louis reserves the right    
 to accept or reject any or all responses or to    
 cancel this concession bid in part or in its      
 entirety.                                         
 ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE                 
 LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN                 
          NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS                    
           LIVING WAGE RATES                     
         EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2011                 
 In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the     
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance                 
 ("Ordinance") and the Regulations associated    
 therewith, the City Compliance Official for     
 the City of St. Louis has determined that the   
 following living wage rates are now in effect   
 for employees of covered contracts:             
    1)    Where health benefits as defined in    
          the Ordinance are provided to the      
          employee, the living wage rate is      
          $11.58 per hour (130% of the federal   
          poverty level income guideline for a   
          family of three); and                  
    2)    Where health benefits as defined in    
          the Ordinance are not provided to      
          the employee, the living wage rate is  
          $15.08 per hour (130% of the federal   
          poverty level income guideline for a   
          family of three, plus fringe benefit   
          rates as defined in the Ordinance).    
    3)    Wages required under Chapter 6.20      
          of the Revised Code of the City of     
          St. Louis: $3.50 per hour.             
 These rates are based upon federal poverty      
 level income guidelines as defined in the       
 Ordinance and these rates are effective as of   
 April 1, 2011. These rates will be further      
 adjusted periodically when the federal poverty  
 level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.  
 Department of Health and Human Services or      
 pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code    
 of the City of St. Louis.                       
 The Ordinance applies to employers who are      
 covered by the Ordinance as defined in the      
 Ordinance, where the contract or grant is       
 entered into or renewed after the effective date
 of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.    
 A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online    
 at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or           
 obtained from:                                  
          City Compliance Official               
   Lambert-St. Louis International Airport       
    Certification and Compliance Office          
               P.O. Box 10212                    
            St. Louis, Mo 63145                  
               (314) 426-8111                    
 Dated: January 31, 2011                         
DEPARTMENT OF ST. LOUIS LIVING                     
 PERSONNEL    WAGE ORDINANCE                       
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                        
     The City of St. Louis, Department of          
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,           
announces competitive Civil Service                
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
Service.                                           
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examination is JUNE 3, 2011.         
     CORRECTIONAL OFFICER I                        
            Prom./O.C. 1685                        
$33,306 to $45,058 (Annual Salary Range)           
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examinations is JUNE 10, 2011.       
             ACCOUNTANT II                         
            Prom./O.C. 1795                        
$41,730 to $62,088 (Annual Salary Range)           
   PROGRAM SPECIALIST II                           
 (Homeless Services Division)                      
            Prom./O.C. 1794                        
$33,020 to $49,010 (Annual Salary Range)           
      Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
Security, and Employee Retirement System           
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to    
salary.                                            
      Application forms and further                
information concerning duties of positions,        
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative   
weights of examination components, and             
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the   
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114        
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO              
63101. Applications can be submitted on the        
Internet. Visit the city web site at               
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with          
the City.                                          
                 Richard R. Frank,                 
                 Director                          
May 18, 2011                                       
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                              
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any              
individual or company who performs work            
within the City limits must obtain a Business      
License. This would also apply to businesses       
who employ sales or delivery personnel to          
come into the City. Contracts requiring work       
to be performed in the City will NOT be            
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                  
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                       
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that     
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597       
 and associated Regulations apply to the          
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial     
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are     
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires     
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all      
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a       
 contract executed between the successful         
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]       
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable         
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached      
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are      
 adjusted during the term of the contract         
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates      
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder       
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living     
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance               
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure    
 to submit this Declaration with the bid          
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid   
 [proposal]. A successful bidder's                
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract    
 provisions related to the Living Wage            
 Ordinance may result in termination of the       
 contract and the imposition of additional        
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and      
 Regulations.                                     
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
 are available upon request from La Queta         
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be     
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living          
 wage.                                            
    SUPPLY                                        
 COMMISSIONER                                     
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,               
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,              
 MAY 24, 2011 - INFORMAL and                      
 ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the          
 undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00  
 o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the  
 dates specified.                                 
       TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011                     
        BID PROPOSAL FOR                          
          MAIL SERVICES                           
 for a period of four (4) years from OCTOBER      
 15, 2011.                                        
    BID PROPOSAL FOR PAPER                        
       (NCR & CARBONLESS)                         
 for a period of four (4) years from OCTOBER      
 1, 2011.                                         
          BID PROPOSAL                           
      FOR TOILETS, PORTABLE                      
 for a period of four (4) years from             
 NOVEMBER 1, 2011.                               
       TRAILER, SCOTTY "PUP"                     
 for Fire Department per Req #193. (SC)          
      THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011                    
     BID PROPOSAL FOR TIRES,                     
       REPAIR & RECAPPING                        
 for a period of four (4) years from OCTOBER     
 1, 2011.                                        
   BID PROPOSAL FOR CALCIUM                      
        CHLORIDE, LIQUID                         
 for a period of four (4) years from             
 NOVEMBER 15, 2011 to NOVEMBER 14,               
 2015.                                           
     TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 2011                      
 BID PROPOSAL FOR BATTERIES                      
    (AUTO/TRUCK/TRACTOR)                         
 for a period of four (4) years from OCTOBER     
 15, 2011.                                       
   BID PROPOSAL FOR METER,                       
  WATER (RADIO READ DEVICES)                     
 for a period of four (4) years from             
 NOVEMBER 16, 2011 to NOVEMBER 14,               
 2015.                                           
      Notice to All Suppliers                    
       NOTE: It is the policy of the City of     
 St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
 with the City of St. Louis must comply with     
 employment practices that are in accordance     
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis    
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated     
 there-under to the end that all Contractors     
 and suppliers of materials and services will    
 offer equal opportunity for employment and      
 job advancement to blacks and other minority    
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.      
             Requesting a Bid                    
     Please      contact     the    Supply       
 Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or      
 e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com            
       Bidders are invited to be present at the  
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available   
 30 days following the date of bid opening.      
 If you desire bid results, please include a     
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.   
      The City of St. Louis desires to           
 purchase recycled products whenever             
 possible, especially items containing post      
 consumer waste materials. If your company       
 can supply recycled products, please provide    
 information to this office.                     
           Surplus Property                 
     Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property 
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the 
City Journal.                               
     The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.                                   
               Freddie L. Dunlap            
               Supply Commissioner          
               (314) 622-4580               
               www.stlouis-mo.gov           
