      The   City Journal              
          (USPS: 114-540)             
        Published Weekly              
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
       by City of St. Louis           
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
    Periodicals postage paid at       
        St. Louis, Missouri           
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2011-2012                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
   Friday, October 14, 2011.      
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen          
 Chambers October 14, 2011.                       
       The roll was called and the following      
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,        
 Bosley, Moore, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,         
 Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard, Florida,       
 Baringer, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,        
 Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson,        
 Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 24           
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,     
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations      
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."            
     ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                          
    SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                      
      None.                                       
           INTRODUCTION OF                        
           HONORED GUESTS                         
      None.                                       
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                        
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                        
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the             
 minutes for September 30, 2011.                  
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                   
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                      
         Report of the Clerk                      
     of the Board of Aldermen                     
      I wish to report that on the 14th day of    
 October, 2011, I delivered to the Office of the  
 Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following     
 board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
 adopted.                                         
           Board Bill No. 100                      
           (Floor Substitute)                      
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.       
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in           
consideration of the sum of One Hundred            
Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) and other           
good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim      
Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim     
unto Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers,       
Inc., a Missouri non-profit corporation,           
certain City-owned property located in City        
Block 569, which property is known as 1717         
Biddle Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63106           
(Assessor's Records 1704-1743 Biddle), and         
containing an emergency clause.                    
           Board Bill No. 101                      
           (Floor Substitute)                      
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.       
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in           
consideration of the sum of One Hundred            
Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) and other           
good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim      
Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim     
unto Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Centers,       
Inc., a Missouri non-profit corporation,           
certain City-owned property located in City        
Block 1335, which property is known as 2220        
Lemp Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63104             
(Assessor's Records 2220 Lemp), and                
containing an emergency clause.                    
            Board Bill No. 78                      
     An ordinance approved and                     
recommended by the Board of Estimate and           
Apportionment; authorizing a First                 
Amendment of the Operating Lease                   
Agreement authorized by Ordinance 68601            
of the West End Community Center between           
the City of St. Louis and Demetrious Johnson       
Charitable Foundation, Inc. by deleting Section    
14 thereof pertaining to utilities, and adopting   
a new Section 14 thereof pertaining to utilities;  
with an emergency provision.                       
            Board Bill No. 91                      
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor, on the behalf of the City of St.        
Louis, to submit all necessary applications        
and to enter into agreements with the State of     
Missouri, Department of Health and Senior          
Services, (Department) (Grant# 3M0300006-          
11) for the "Child & Adult Care Food-I Am          
Moving, I Am Learning" Program and                 
authorizing the Mayor, upon approval of the        
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to            
expend any funds received by said grants to        
fulfill the obligations of the grants, and         
containing an emergency clause.                    
           Board Bill No. 103                      
     An Ordinance pertaining to the Division       
 of St. Louis Area Agency on Aging; repealing      
 Section One, Two, Three, Four, Five, Six and      
 Seven of Ordinance 56015, which has as its        
 subject matter the establishment of the           
 Division and sets forth the powers and duties     
 of such Division and provides for the             
 establishment of an Advisory Council of Aging     
 and its duties and powers and enacting, in lieu   
 thereof, a new ordinance pertaining to the same   
 subject matter, and containing a severability     
 and emergency clause.                             
           Board Bill No. 75                       
        (Committee Substitute/                     
            As Amended)                            
       An ordinance pertaining to dog training     
 in public parks; regulating dog training          
 activities, requiring a permit for the activity   
 and containing an emergency clause.               
            Board Bill No. 156                     
       An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68813      
 and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance      
 prohibiting the issuance of any package or        
 drink liquor licenses for any currently non-      
 licensed premises within the boundaries of        
 the Twenty-Seventh Ward Liquor Control            
 District, as established herein, for a period of  
 three years from the effective date hereof;       
 containing an exception allowing, during the      
 moratorium period, for the transfer of existing   
 licenses, under certain circumstances, and the    
 issuance of a drink license to persons operating  
 a restaurant at a previously non-licensed         
 premises; and containing an emergency clause.     
            Board Bill No. 158                     
       An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68403      
 and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance      
 prohibiting the issuance of any package or        
 drink liquor licenses for any currently non-      
 licensed premises within the boundaries of        
 the Nineteenth Ward Liquor Control District,      
 as established herein, for a period of three      
 years from the effective date hereof; containing  
 exceptions and allowing, during the moratorium    
 period, for the transfer of existing licenses,    
 under certain circumstances, and the issuance     
 of a drink license to persons operating a         
 restaurant at a previously non-licensed           
 premises and containing an emergency clause.      
            Board Bill No. 136                     
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above   
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for       
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in 15   
 foot wide east/west alley in City Block 1013      
 as bounded by Washington, Rev. T E Huntley,       
 Locust and Garrison in the City of St. Louis,     
 Missouri, as hereinafter described, in            
 accordance with Charter authority, and in         
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of      
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions       
 on such vacation.                               
            Board Bill No. 137                   
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above 
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for     
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in a  
 portion of the 15 foot wide east/west alley in  
 City Block 1043 beginning at Josephine Baker    
 (vacated) and extending 145.16 feet             
 eastwardly to a point and bounded by            
 Washington, Leonard, Locust and Josephine       
 Baker (vacated) in the City of St. Louis,       
 Missouri, as hereinafter described, in          
 accordance with Charter authority, and in       
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of    
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions     
 on such vacation.                               
            Board Bill No. 138                   
       An ordinance recommended by the Board     
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above 
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for     
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in    
 Hickory St. from Carr Lane to Ranken Ave.       
 and Ranken Ave. from the south right-of-way     
 line of Hickory St. northwardly 125 feet to a   
 point in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as    
 hereinafter described, in accordance with       
 Charter authority, and in conformity with       
 Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and    
 imposing certain conditions on such vacation.   
            Board Bill No. 159                   
      An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68748     
 pertaining to the issuance of any package or    
 drink liquor licenses for premises within the   
 boundaries of the Third Ward Liquor Control     
 District and in lieu thereof containing the     
 following supplementary exemptions:             
 renewal of an existing license and the          
 establishment of an Entertainment District;     
 and containing an emergency clause.             
            Board Bill No. 160                   
       An ordinance repealing ordinance 68841    
 and enacting a new ordinance confirming the     
 prohibition of the issuance of any package or   
 drink liquor licenses for any currently non-    
 licensed premises within the new boundaries     
 of the Twentieth Ward Liquor Control            
 District, as established herein, for a period of
 three years from the effective date hereof;     
 containing exceptions allowing, during the      
 period, for the transfer of existing licenses,  
 under certain circumstances; or the issuance    
 of a drink license (no package) to persons      
 operating a restaurant with at least 50% food   
 sales at a previously non-licensed premises;    
 or the issuance of a drink license(no package)  
 to persons operating a premises with a          
 Cherokee Street address from the west curbline  
 of Jefferson Avenue to the east curbline of     
 Nebraska Avenue; or to persons who on the       
effective date of this ordinance operated a bar   
for at least three (3) years in compliance with   
excise laws and continue to operate with at       
least 20% food sales, thereafter; and containing  
a severability and emergency clause.              
           Board Bill No. 161                     
     An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68809       
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance      
prohibiting the issuance of any package or        
drink liquor licenses for any currently non-      
licensed premises within the boundaries of        
the Tenth Ward Liquor Control District, as        
established herein, for a period of three years   
from the effective date hereof; containing an     
exception allowing, during the moratorium         
period, for the transfer of existing licenses,    
under certain circumstances, and the issuance     
of a drink license to persons operating a         
restaurant at a previously non-licensed           
premises; and containing an emergency clause.     
           Board Bill No. 162                     
     An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68885       
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance      
prohibiting the issuance of any package liquor    
license for any non-licensed premises within      
the boundaries of the Fifth Ward Liquor           
Control District, as established herein, for a    
period of three years from the effective date     
hereof; containing exceptions and allowing,       
during the moratorium period, for the transfer    
of existing licenses, under certain               
circumstances; and containing an emergency        
clause.                                           
           Board Bill No. 163                     
     An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68131       
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance      
prohibiting the issuance of any package or        
drink liquor licenses for any currently non-      
licensed premises within the boundaries of        
the Fourth Ward Liquor Control District, as       
established herein, for a period of three years   
from the effective date hereof; containing        
exceptions and allowing, during the moratorium    
period, for the transfer of existing licenses,    
under certain circumstances, and the issuance     
of a drink license to persons operating a         
restaurant at a previously non-licensed           
premises and containing an emergency clause.      
           Board Bill No. 157                     
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
all northbound traffic traveling on Euclid        
Avenue at Wabada Place, establishing a stop       
site for all southbound traffic traveling on      
Euclid Avenue at Hammett Place and                
containing an emergency clause.                   
         Board Bill No. 139                       
       (Committee Substitute)                     
     An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to vacate above surface,        
 surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,       
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1) A portion  
 of Catalan Street beginning at the west right-    
 of-way line of Railroad Street and continuing     
 eastwardly approximately 708.795 feet             
 6.265 feet to a point, 2) Railroad Street from    
 the south right-of-way line of Espensheid         
 Street to Marceau Street, 3) A 100-110 foot       
 portion of Marceau Street beginning 10.40 feet    
 west of Railroad Street to a point 47.22 feet     
 east of Railroad Street, 4) East Railroad Street  
 from Marceau Street to Davis Street, 5) Hurck     
 Street from East Railroad Street to West          
 Railroad Street, 6) A portion of Davis            
 beginning approximately 577.64 feet east of       
 Polk and continuing eastwardly approximately      
 268.01 feet  .673 feet to a point in the City     
 of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter            
 described, in accordance with Charter             
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4      
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing        
 certain conditions on such vacation.              
            Board Bill No. 155                     
       An ordinance pertaining to street           
 vendors, amending Ordinance 65061 by              
 deleting paragraph (G) of Section Four of such    
 Ordinance, thereby prohibiting street vendors     
 in the area previously known as the 14th Ward     
 Vending District.                                 
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                      
      Board of Aldermen                            
           Office of the Mayor                     
 City of St. Louis                                 
 Room 200 City Hall                                
 1200 Market Street                                
 St. Louis, MO 63103                               
 (314) 622-3201                                    
 October 10, 2011                                  
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                       
 Room 230 City Hall                                
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                         
 Dear Board Members:                               
      I have the honor to return to you            
 herewith Board Bills No. 146, 147 and 148         
 with my approval endorsed thereon.                
      Sincerely,                                   
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                              
      Mayor                                        
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                        
      None.                                        
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                        
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                            
       None.                                       
          BOARD BILLS FOR                          
           THIRD READING                           
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                         
      None.                                        
              RESOLUTIONS                         
         - INFORMAL CALENDAR                      
 None.                                            
            FIRST READING                         
            OF BOARD BILLS                        
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 183                    
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and the       
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of    
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the  
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on        
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement     
 offered by the United States of America (the     
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the           
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United    
 States Department of Transportation, the         
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-      
 29-0085-130-2011, dated September 6, 2011,       
 for a maximum federal obligation of Seven        
 Million Three Hundred Eighteen Thousand          
 One Hundred Twelve Dollars ($7,318,112),         
 which is filed in the Office of the City Register
 [Comptroller Document No. 63218], for the        
 reimbursement of direct costs associated with    
 the reconstruction of Taxiway Delta (from        
 Taxiway Kilo to Taxiway Juliet) - Phase 2,       
 and Taxiway Echo (from Taxiway Lima to           
 Taxiway Juliet) - Phase 2; and containing an     
 emergency clause.                                
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 184                    
       An Ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Board of Estimate and            
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the      
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller for     
 the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter      
 into and execute on behalf of the City the Fuel  
 System Lease and Use Agreement with a            
 twenty year term (AL-442) between the City       
 and STL Fuel Company LLC, a State of             
 Delaware corporation (the "Lessee") at           
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the  
 "Lease Agreement"), granting to the Lessee,      
 subject to and in accordance with the terms,     
 covenants, and conditions of the Lease           
 Agreement, certain rights and privileges in      
 connection with the occupancy and use of the     
 Leased Premises, which is defined and more       
 fully described in Section 301 of the Lease      
 Agreement that was approved by the Airport       
 Commission and the City's Board of Estimate      
 and Apportionment and is attached hereto as      
 ATTACHMENT A and made a part hereof;             
 containing a severability clause; and containing 
an emergency clause.                              
Board Member Kennedy introduced by                
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 185                     
     An Ordinance recommended and                 
approved by the Board of Estimate and             
Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
the City of St. Louis (the "City") to enter       
into and execute on behalf of the City the        
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
("Airport") Luggage Cart Rental Concession        
Agreement AL-148 (the "Agreement"),               
between the City and Flight Services &            
Systems, Inc., d/b/a EZCART (the                  
"Concessionaire"), granting to the                
Concessionaire the exclusive right, license,      
obligation, and privilege to design, construct,   
operate, manage, and maintain a Luggage Cart      
Rental Concession at the Airport within the       
premises as described in the Agreement,           
subject to and in accordance with the terms,      
covenants, and conditions of the Agreement,       
which was approved by the Airport                 
Commission and is attached hereto as              
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof;            
containing a severability clause; and containing  
an emergency clause.                              
Board Member Boyd introduced by request:          
           Board Bill No. 186                     
     An Ordinance which amends Ordinance          
68536, Section Nine, paragraph 14.08.170 of       
the Excise Code of the City of St. Louis, to      
amend submission and withdrawal of                
signatures from consent or protest petitions      
under this ordinance; and containing an           
emergency clause.                                 
Board Member Ogilvie introduced by                
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 187                     
     An ordinance dissolving the Special          
Allocation Fund for the Scullin                   
Redevelopment Project Area, terminating the       
designation of a portion of the City of St.       
Louis, Missouri, as a redevelopment area, and     
authorizing certain actions relating thereto.     
Board Member Roddy introduced by request:         
           Board Bill No. 188                     
      An ordinance dissolving the special         
allocation funds for the Station G                
Redevelopment area and terminating the            
designation of certain respective portions of     
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, relating to      
that redevelopment area and authorizing           
certain actions relating thereto.                 
Board Members Krewson, Roddy and                  
President Reed introduced by request:             
            Board Bill No. 189                     
      An ordinance relating to Forest Park,        
 recommended by the Board of Estimate and          
 Apportionment and the Board of Public             
 Service; providing for the execution and          
 delivery of a 2011 Supplemental Maintenance       
 Cooperation Agreement (the "2011                  
 Supplemental Maintenance and Cooperation          
 Agreement" ), between the City of St. Louis       
 and Forest Park Forever, Inc. ; with an           
 emergency provision.                              
 Board Members Krewson, Roddy and                  
 President Reed introduced by request:             
            Board Bill No. 190                     
       An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment               
 authorizing and directing the Comptroller to      
 issue various Requests for Proposal to secure     
 bond counsel, financial advisors, underwriters,   
 underwriters' counsel and any other               
 professional services necessary to prepare        
 documents required to issue the Bonds, in the     
 manner and amounts provided below;                
 authorizing and directing the City to take        
 action to prepare to issue and sell its City      
 Revenue Bonds in an aggregate principal           
 amount of approximately $34,000,000 to            
 allow for the planting of trees and other         
 landscape materials in the City right of way      
 and for the improvement of City Parks (other      
 than Forest Park) as provided herein, and         
 authorizing and directing the St. Louis           
 Municipal Finance Corporation to issue and        
 sell the Forest Park Bonds in an aggregate        
 principal amount of not to exceed                 
 $30,000,000 for the improvement of Forest         
 Park, all for the general welfare, safety and     
 benefit of the citizens of the City; prescribing  
 other matters relating thereto; and authorizing   
 and directing the taking of other actions, and    
 approval and execution of other documents         
 as necessary or desirable to carry out and        
 comply with the intent hereof; and containing     
 a Severability Clause.                            
 Board Member Young introduced by                  
 request:                                          
            Board Bill No. 191                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study     
 and redevelopment plan dated September 27,        
 2011 for the 210 N. Tucker Blvd.                  
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,    
 the "Plan") after finding that said               
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the             
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a         
 description of the boundaries of the Area in      
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation  
 of the Area is in the interest of the public   
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of  
 the people of the City; approving the Plan     
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as     
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430     
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a      
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment  
 of the Area which affords maximum              
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area      
 by private enterprise; finding that no property
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land        
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the   
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body      
 corporate and politic created under Missouri   
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;   
 finding that some of the property within the   
 Area is occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as   
 defined herein) shall be responsible for       
 providing relocation assistance pursuant to    
 the Plan to any eligible occupants displaced   
 as a result of implementation of the Plan;     
 finding that financial aid may be necessary to 
 enable the Area to be redeveloped in           
 accordance with the Plan; finding that there   
 shall be available up to a ten (10) year real  
 estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation 
 of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")  
 and requesting various officials, departments, 
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate   
 and to exercise their respective powers in a   
 manner consistent with the Plan; and           
 containing a severability clause.              
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                     
        BOARD BILLS                             
          Convention and Tourism                
                   None.                        
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions           
                 None.                          
        Health and Human Services               
                  None.                         
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning            
    Board Bills No. 187, 188 and 191.           
         Intergovernmental Affairs              
                   None.                        
                 Legislation                    
                   None.                        
        Neighborhood Development                
                  None.                         
     Parks and Environmental Matters            
            Board Bill No. 189.                 
       Personnel and Administration             
                  None.                         
              Public Employees                  
                    None.                       
                Public Safety                   
              Board Bill No. 186.               
               Public Utilities                 
                   None.                        
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse              
                   None.                         
     Transportation and Commerce                 
     Board Bills No. 183, 184 and 185.           
             Ways and Means                      
             Board Bill No. 190.                 
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                       
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                        
     Mr. Carter of the Committee on Public       
Safety submitted the following report which      
was read.                                        
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,          
October 14, 2011.                                
     To the President of the Board of            
Aldermen:                                        
     The Committee on Public Safety to           
whom was referred the following Board Bills,     
report that they have considered the same and    
recommend adoption.                              
          Board Bill No. 29                      
       (Committee Substitute)                    
   An ordinance prohibiting the issuance of      
any package liquor license for any non-licensed  
premises within the boundaries of the            
Eighteenth Ward Liquor Control District, as      
established herein, for a period of three years  
from the effective date hereof; containing       
exceptions and allowing, during the moratorium   
period, for the transfer of existing licenses,   
under certain circumstances; and containing      
an emergency clause.                             
           Board Bill No. 176                    
     An ordinance prohibiting the issuance       
of any package or drink liquor licenses for      
any currently non-licensed premises within       
the boundaries of the Fourteenth Ward Liquor     
Control District, as established herein, for a   
period of three years from the effective date    
hereof; containing an exception allowing,        
during the moratorium period, for the transfer   
of existing licenses, under certain              
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink       
license to persons operating a restaurant at a   
previously non-licensed premises; and            
containing an emergency clause.                  
           Board Bill No. 179                    
     An ordinance pertaining to the Liquor       
Control Law of the City of St. Louis; amending   
Section Four of Ordinance 68536 setting forth    
an area which shall not be within the            
convention trade area of the City of St. Louis;  
containing an emergency clause.                  
     Alderman Carter                             
     Chairman of the Committee                   
           REPORT OF                             
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                        
     None.                                       
            PERFECTION                            
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
        Mr. Wessels moved that the following      
 Board Bill before the Board for perfection, be   
 perfected as reported out of Committee with      
 its recommendation "Do Pass": Board Bill No.     
 167.                                             
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
      None.                                       
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
      None.                                       
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
        OF BOARD BILLS                            
      None.                                       
         REPORT OF THE                            
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                         
      None.                                       
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       President Reed introduced Resolutions      
 No. 226 and 227 and the Clerk was instructed     
 to read same.                                    
           Resolution No. 226                     
 Reverend Andrew J. Latchison, Jr.                
       WHEREAS, Pastor A. J. Latchison, Jr.       
 was born into a God-fearing home to the union    
 of the late Rev. Andrew J. Latchison, Sr. and    
 Missionary Lola Latchison. He is the product     
 of a very spiritual upbringing and was trained   
 and taught well, both religiously and            
 philosophically. His parents prayed and          
 sought the Lord daily to raise Andrew, his       
 four sisters (Betty, Deborah, Ruth and           
 Martha), and his two brothers (Mark and          
 Samson). Pastor Latchison is married to the      
 vivacious Ms. Hope E. (Wendi), of Cedar          
 Rapids, Iowa and they are the proud parents      
 of three children; Diamond, Jade, and Ahmad      
 Jordan; and                                      
       WHEREAS, his foundation and roots          
 lie deeply in the Christ Southern Mission        
 Baptist Church under the inspirational           
 leadership of the late, great Rev. Herman Gore,  
 Sr., and co-pastored by his son, The Reverend    
 Herman Gore, Jr. His spiritual nurturing and     
 development continued during his teen and        
 young adult years at the Kennerly Temple         
 C.O.G.I.C. under the watchful guidance of the    
 Honorable Bishop R.J. Ward. Andrew was           
 ordained an elder in May of 1974 within the      
 Churches of God in Christ (headquartered in      
 Memphis, Tenn.), which was then overseen       
 by the late Bishop J.O. Patterson. Bishop      
 Ward presented Andrew with many                
 opportunities to minister in convocations,     
 revivals, and conventions in St. Louis and     
 around the country; and                        
      WHEREAS, after graduating from            
 Soldan High School in 1974, he organized The   
 Gospel Harmonizers at the Harris Stowe         
 Teacher's College where he was enrolled. The   
 choir was comprised of more than fifty young   
 people whose sole purpose was to spread the    
 Good News to prisoners, the down-trodden,      
 the unsaved and the homeless. This choir       
 made their first recording in 1979 after having
 sung with such notables as the late Rev. James 
 Cleveland, Evangelist Shirley Caesar, Inez     
 Andrews, Andrae Crouch, Rev. Richard "Mr.      
 Clean" White, Walter and Edwins Hawkins,       
 and many more; and                             
       WHEREAS, He was also united in Holy      
 Matrimony in 1974 to the late Dorcas           
 LaGrone, who throughout his ministry and       
 until the time of her death, was forever by his
 side. To this blessed union were born three    
 children; Eschele, Nakita, and Andrew III; and 
       WHEREAS, Rev. Latchison became a         
 visiting chaplain at the St. Louis County      
 Correctional Facility at Gumbo in 1975.        
 Andrew received his Bachelor of Arts Degree    
 in Education from the Harris-Stowe Teachers'   
 College. In 1979, Rev Latchison joined with    
 the ministry of the New Sunnymount M.B.        
 Church under the very, capable leadership of   
 Pastor Donald Hunter. He took Andrew under     
 his wings and was instrumental in shaping      
 and developing him for great ministry          
 ordaining him within the National Baptist      
 Convention U.S.A., Inc., in 1980. He has       
 pastored First Baptist Church, Quincy,         
 Illinois; Bethel Baptist Church, Rockford,     
 Illinois; Christ Tabernacle Baptist Church,    
 Rockford, Illinois; Oak Grove Baptist Church,  
 St. Louis, MO and currently serves as founding 
 pastor of the Well Spring of Life International
 Ministries.                                    
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of           
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our     
 deliberations to recognize Reverend Andrew     
 J. Latchison, Jr. for his many accomplishments 
 and we wish him peace and happiness in his     
 retirement and we further direct the Clerk of  
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution 
 across the minutes of these proceedings and    
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end     
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a   
 time and place deemed appropriate by the       
 Sponsor.                                       
 Introduced on the 14th day of October, 2011    
by:                                                
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward        
           Resolution No. 227                      
        Henry Givens, Jr., Ph.D.                   
      WHEREAS, he have been apprised of            
the retirement of Dr. Henry Givens, Jr.; and       
     WHEREAS, Dr. Henry Givens, Jr. was            
president of Harris-Stowe State University         
for more than 30 years; and                        
      WHEREAS, Dr. Givens was educated             
in the St. Louis Public School System, earned      
his baccalaureate degree at Lincoln University,    
his master's degree at the University of Illinois  
and his Ph.D. at St. Louis University; and         
      WHEREAS, Dr. Givens began his career         
as a teacher in the Webster Groves School          
District. Before leaving the Webster Groves        
public schools, he held the post of Assistant      
to the Superintendent of Schools; and              
      WHEREAS, Dr. Givens then became the          
first African-American to serve Missouri as        
Assistant Commissioner of Education, a             
position he held for five years; and               
      WHEREAS, under Dr. Given's                   
leadership, Harris-Stowe greatly expanded its      
degree programs and it now has 14 degree           
offerings in applied professional disciplines;     
and                                                
     WHEREAS, Harris-Stowe State                   
University under Dr. Givens, tripled its           
student enrollment and has changed its status      
from College to University; and                    
     WHEREAS, Dr. Givens has served as             
Chairman of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.        
Statewide Celebration Commission for               
Missouri from 1986 to 2011; and                    
     WHEREAS, Dr. Givens is affiliated with        
numerous professional and social                   
organizations, and has received over 125           
national, state, local awards and recognitions;    
and                                                
      WHEREAS, Dr. Givens is married to            
Belma Evans Givens and they have a daughter,       
a son and three grandchildren.                     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our         
deliberations to recognize Dr. Henry Givens,       
Jr. for his many contributions to the education    
of countless students. We wish him continued       
success and we further direct the Clerk of this    
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution          
across the minutes of these proceedings and        
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end         
that it may be presented to our honoree at a       
time and place deemed appropriate by the           
 Sponsor.                                              
 Introduced on the 14th day of October, 2011           
 by:                                                   
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard      
 Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1st Ward      
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward          
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward           
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward         
 Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward         
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward           
 Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward       
 Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward            
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard        
 Honorable Carol J. Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward        
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward         
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward             
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward            
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward             
 HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward         
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward          
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward           
 Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward            
 Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward               
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward         
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward           
      Unanimous consent having been                    
 obtained Resolutions No. 226 and 227 stood            
 considered.                                           
       President Reed moved that Resolutions           
 No. 226 and 227 be adopted, at this meeting           
 of the Board.                                         
       Seconded by Ms. Florida.                        
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
          SECOND READING OF                            
             RESOLUTIONS                               
       None.                                           
        MISCELLANEOUS AND                              
        UNFINISHED BUSINESS                            
       None.                                           
            ANNOUNCEMENTS                              
       None.                                           
          EXCUSED ALDERMEN                             
      Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the                  
 following aldermen due to their necessary             
 absence: Ms. Flowers, Ms. Triplett, Ms.               
 Young and Mr. Roddy.                                  
       Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                       
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
             ADJOURNMENT                        
       Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under       
 rules to return October 21, 2011.              
      Seconded by Mr. Carter.                   
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Respectfully submitted,                   
      David W. Sweeney                          
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                  
   BOARD OF                                     
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
          REGULAR MEETING                       
    St. Louis, MO - October 18, 2011            
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                    
      Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,    
 Siedhoff, Bess, Rice-Walker, Bryson and        
 President Bradley.                             
      Absent: None.                             
      Hearings were held on the following       
 matters:                                       
                 HEARINGS                       
       Hearing No. 8146 - Demetrius Jones       
 d/b/a Tattoo City, operate tattoo establishment
 at 2802 No. Grand (3 tattoo chairs) pursuant   
 to Chapter 8.97 of the City of St. Louis       
 Revised Code and Ordinance 68571and            
 57404. Permit No. 117296 ordered approved.     
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of         
 October 11, 2011 were unanimously              
 approved.                                      
       Communications, reports, recommenda-     
 tions and documents were submitted by Board    
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:   
                PRESIDENT                       
      Proposed contract and bond ordered        
 approved as follows:                           
       Letting No. 8486 - Concrete and Brick    
 Removal/Replacement and Complete               
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-85,      
 Gershenson Construction Company Inc., 2        
 Truitt Dr., Eureka, MO 63025, Contract No.     
 19843                                          
 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES                   
      Application No. 117819, City of           
 Olivette, Department of Parks and              
 Recreation, conduct prescribed burn of 4 acres 
 between November 01, 2011 and March 31,        
 2012, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and         
 holidays in Stacy Park located at 9750 Old     
 Bonhomme, Olivette, MO ordered approved        
 subject to certain conditions.                 
       DIRECTORS OF                             
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                    
       3 Permits ordered approved, subject to   
certain conditions as follows: 117907, Union    
Electric Company d/b/a AmerenUE, install        
manholes and conduit for New Central            
Substation on So. Spring south of Metro         
Station, east of So. Grand, 117867, AT and T    
Missouri, replace buried cable between an       
existing pole located near 6542 Nashville and   
pole located at rear of 1368 Louisville, and    
117859, Qwest Communications, directional       
drill 4579' of new conduit and placement of 1   
new manhole and new handhole starting at        
912 So. Newstead and ending at 5000             
Manchester.                                     
    DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
  UTILITIES, STREETS, PARKS,                    
  RECREATION AND FORESTRY                       
  AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                      
     Application No.117868, Competitor          
Group, hold event October 23, 2011 at various   
Parks throughout the City and closing various   
streets within the City ordered approved,       
subject to certain conditions.                  
    DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                         
 UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                    
     Application 117910, Union Square           
Enterprises, resubdivide land surrounding       
Forest Park, Interstate 64 and Grand in C.B.    
2206A ordered approved, subject to certain      
conditions.                                     
      DIRECTOR OF STREETS                       
      4 Permits ordered approved, subject to    
certain conditions as follows: 117884, Gyro     
House, encroach with sidewalk cafe (2 tables    
and 8 chairs) no liquor at 6152 Delmar,         
117887, Lucas Rouggly, paint intersection       
14th St. and Warren, 117894, Tatyana            
Telnikova, encroach with bicycle rack at 3159   
Cherokee, and 117893, Lucas Rouggly, hold       
event November 4-5, 2011 on 14th St. between    
St. Louis and Warren.                           
    DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                         
  RECREATION AND FORESTRY                       
  AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                      
     Application 117804, C & C Concepts,        
hold event October 8, 2011 in Lucas Park        
ordered approved, subject to certain            
conditions.                                     
 DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                        
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                     
     Application No. 117895, Pastor Wilbert     
Goatley Jr.,operate an open air market at 2822  
Dr. Martin Luther King Dr. ordered approved     
subject to certain conditions.                  
  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                     
     8 Conditional Use Permits ordered          
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,     
 per Board Order No. 766: 117912, 4168             
 Juniata, office and meeting Suite 4, 2nd floor    
 and inside storage east section of rear garage,   
 117913, 4601-11 Morganford, school,               
 117914, 5900-16 Enright, interior and exterior    
 alterations, (per plans) multi family Zoning      
 only, 117915, 5901-03 Delmar, construct           
 mixed use building (per plans) for multi family,  
 commercial (zoning only), 117916, 3551            
 Morganford, daycare, 117917, 5626 Itaska,         
 car sales business (office use only) home         
 occupancy waiver, 117918, 6604 Sutherland,        
 home repair business (office use only) home       
 occupancy wavier, and 117919, 5422 Robert,        
 remodeling business (office use only) home        
 occupancy wavier.                                 
      Agenda Items for October 11, 2011,           
 ordered approved.                                 
     The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,          
 October 25, 2011.                                 
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
             Office of the                         
        Board of Public Service                    
           City of St. Louis                       
      Sealed Proposals will be received by the     
 Board of Public Services, Room 208, City Hall     
 1200 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri, until    
 1:45 p.m., November 22, 2011, at which time       
 they will be publicly opened and read.            
 LETTING NO. 8494                                  
 JOB TITLE: Lambert-St. Louis Inter-               
 national Airport (R) Check Baggage                
 Inspection Systems (CBIS) Program CBIS            
 General Building Renovations, Terminal            
 1 and Terminal 2                                  
 DEPOSIT: $265,475.00                              
      The bid package will be available for        
 purchase from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday      
 through Friday commencing October 17,             
 2011, through DIGI Reprographics USA, Inc.,       
 9331 Natural Bridge Road, St. Louis, MO           
 63134 (Phone: 314-428-0124) at cost, plus         
 shipping if required. Purchased sets become       
 the property of the prospective bidder and        
 no refunds will be made.                          
      A mandatory pre-bid meeting will be          
 held Monday, October 24, 2011, at 10:00           
 a.m., in the JoAnne Wayne Conference              
 Room located in Terminal 1 at Lambert-            
 St. Louis International Airport (R) . An          
 opportunity for contractors to meet and           
 network will be held immediately following        
 the pre-bid conference. A site tour will be       
 held at 1:00 p.m., Monday, October 24,            
 2011. Interested parties shall be required to     
 register for the site tour at the pre-bid meeting.
 Information regarding meeting place will be       
 announced at the pre-bid meeting. The site        
 tour is not mandatory.                            
       Proposals must be made on blank forms       
 to be furnished by the President of the Board     
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to       
 Room 208, City Hall.                              
       Each bidder shall specify in its proposal,  
 without interlineations, alternations or          
 erasures, in figures, a unit or lump sum price,   
 whichever the case may be, for each of the        
 separate items called for in the proposal, and,   
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid, the   
 Total Bid Amount for which he will perform        
 all of the estimated work as requested by the     
 general requirements and covenants,               
 specifications and plans.                         
       When an error appears on the extension,     
 the unit price will govern. Bids will be audited  
 for correctness. Quantities will be multiplied    
 by unit prices. All extension of the items will   
 be summed and the total sum will constitute       
 the bid. The audited numbers will take            
 precedence over the submitted numbers and         
 will constitute the contractor's bid.             
      Each bid must be accompanied by a            
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or       
 Trust Company in the City of St. Louis,           
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller         
 of the City of St. Louis for the amount of        
 Deposit required, as stated above.                
       All work under this contract will be paid   
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the    
 work completed, less a retained amount of         
 10%. Final Payment, including all retained        
 percentages, will be made within ten (10) days    
 after completion of all work and final            
 acceptance by the City.                           
       The City of St. Louis requires that a       
 good faith effort be made to utilize fully        
 certified Disadvantaged Business Enterprises      
 (DBE). A Disadvantaged Business Enterprise        
 participation goal of 4% has been established     
 for this project.                                 
       All labor to be performed under this        
 contract shall be subject to the laws of the      
 State of Missouri and the Federal Davis Bacon     
 Requirements.                                     
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 October 11, 2011.                                 
                Richard T. Bradley, P.E.        
                President                       
ATTEST:                                         
                Cherise D. Thomas               
                Secretary                       
           Office of the                        
      Board of Public Service                   
         City of St. Louis                      
     Sealed Proposals will be received by the   
Board of Public Services, Room 208, City Hall   
1200 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri, until  
1:45 p.m., November 22, 2011, at which time     
they will be publicly opened and read.          
LETTING NO. 8495                                
JOB TITLE: Lambert-St. Louis Inter-             
national Airport (R) Check Baggage              
Inspection Systems (CBIS) Program CBIS          
Baggage Systems, Terminal 1 and                 
Terminal 2                                      
DEPOSIT: $745,600.00                            
     The bid package will be available for      
purchase from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday    
through Friday commencing October 17, 2011,     
through DIGI Reprographics USA, Inc., 9331      
Natural Bridge Road, St. Louis, MO 63134        
(Phone: 314-428-0124) at cost, plus shipping    
if required. Purchased sets become the          
property of the prospective bidder and no       
refunds will be made.                           
      The following CBIS Baggage Systems        
Contractors have been pre-qualified by the      
City to submit bids on this project. Only       
bids from these companies will be considered.   
Chad Buffam                                     
G & S Mechanical USA, Inc.                      
3409 West Harry                                 
Wichita, KS 67213                               
P: 403.230.1140                                 
F: 403.293.9774                                 
chad.buffam@gsairportconveyor.com               
David Mead                                      
Glidepath LLC                                   
1713 South Great Southwest Pkwy.                
Grand Prairie, TX 75051                         
P. 972.641.4200 ext 100                         
F. 972.641.4203                                 
David.mead@glidepathgroup.com                   
Jay Bouton                                      
The Horsley Company                             
1630 South 4800 West, Suite D                   
Salt Lake City, UT 84104                        
P: 970.226.4717                                 
F: 970.226.4724                                 
jay.bouton@fivestaraa.com                       
James Thomas                                    
 Siemens Industry, Inc.                              
 1011 North 28th Avenue                              
 DFW Airport. TX 75261                               
 P: 972.947.7336                                     
 F: 817.856.4836                                     
 James.thomas@siemens.com                            
 Ken Cunningham                                      
 Jervis B. Webb Company                              
 34375 W. Twelve Mile Road                           
 Farmington Hills, MI 48331                          
 P. 248.553.6937                                     
 C: 313.433.9582                                     
 F: 248.553.5268                                     
 kcunningham@jerviswebb.com                          
 Scott Shaw                                          
 Vanderlande Industries, Inc.                        
 1828 West Oak Parkway                               
 Marietta, GA 30062                                  
 P: 678.324.5851                                     
 F: 770.250.2810                                     
 scott.shaw@vanderlande.com                          
       A mandatory pre-bid meeting will be           
 held Tuesday, October 25, 2011, at 10:00            
 a.m., in the Properties Conference Room             
 MT2450 located in Terminal 1 at Lambert-            
 St. Louis International Airport (R) . An            
 opportunity for contractors to meet and             
 network will be held immediately following          
 the pre-bid conference.                             
       A site tour will be conducted Tuesday,        
 October 25, 2011, at 1:00 p.m. Interested           
 parties shall be required to register for the site  
 tour at the pre-bid meeting. Meeting place          
 will be announced at the pre-bid meeting. It is     
 not mandatory to attend the walk-through.           
      Subcontractors submitting bids to the          
 prequalified CBIS Baggage Systems                   
 Contractors are also welcome to attend the          
 pre-bid meeting and walk-through; however,          
 attendance at these meetings is not required        
 of subcontractors.                                  
       Proposals must be made on blank forms         
 to be furnished by the President of the Board       
 of Public Service, and must be submitted to         
 Room 208, City Hall.                                
       Each bidder shall specify in its proposal,    
 without interlineations, alternations or            
 erasures, in figures, a unit or lump sum price,     
 whichever the case may be, for each of the          
 separate items called for in the proposal, and,     
 in addition thereto, at the end of the bid, the     
 Total Bid Amount for which he will perform          
 all of the estimated work as requested by the       
 general requirements and covenants,                 
 specifications and plans.                           
       When an error appears on the extension,       
 the unit price will govern. Bids will be audited    
 for correctness. Quantities will be multiplied      
 by unit prices. All extension of the items will  
 be summed and the total sum will constitute      
 the bid. The audited numbers will take           
 precedence over the submitted numbers and        
 will constitute the contractor's bid.            
      Each bid must be accompanied by a           
 Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of St. Louis,          
 payable to the order of the City Treasurer or    
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller        
 of the City of St. Louis for the amount of       
 Deposit required, as stated above.               
       All work under this contract will be paid  
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the   
 work completed, less a retained amount of        
 10%. Final Payment, including all retained       
 percentages, will be made within ten (10) days   
 after completion of all work and final           
 acceptance by the City.                          
       The City of St. Louis requires that a      
 good faith effort be made to utilize fully       
 certified Disadvantaged Business Enterprises     
 (DBE). A Disadvantage Business Enterprise        
 goal of 2% has been established for this project.
       All labor to be performed under this       
 contract shall be subject to the laws of the     
 State of Missouri and the Federal Davis Bacon    
 Requirements.                                    
       The right of the Board of Public Service   
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved. 
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,     
 October 11, 2011.                                
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.        
                  President                       
 ATTEST:                                          
                  Cherise D. Thomas               
                  Secretary                       
             Office of the                        
        Board of Public Service                   
           City of St. Louis                      
       SEALED PROPOSALS will be received          
 for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by     
 the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market         
 Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,     
 St. Louis, Missouri time on NOVEMBER 15,         
 2011 at which time they will be publicly         
 opened and read, viz:                            
 LETTING NO. 8496                                 
 JOB TITLE: BROADWAY & SEVENTH                    
 STREET IMPROVEMENTS FEDERAL                      
 PROJECT NO. STP 5422(612)                        
 DEPOSIT: $35,650.00                              
      Drawings, Specifications and Form of        
 Contract may be examined at the Office of the    
President of the Board of Public Service,          
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be         
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-             
bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).      
     Sets of Drawings, Specifications and          
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving            
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of         
ONE HUNDRED dollars ($100.00) for each             
set.                                               
     Purchased sets become the property of         
the prospective bidder and no refunds will         
be made.                                           
      Proposals must be made on blank forms        
to be furnished by the President of the Board      
of Public Service, and must be submitted to        
Room 208 City Hall.                                
      Each bidder shall specify in his proposal    
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,  
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items  
where so called for in the proposal, and shall     
show the products of the respective unit prices    
and estimated quantities. He shall also show       
in figures bid proposals for all items on which    
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in            
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump   
Sum for which he will perform all of the           
estimated work, as requested by the general        
requirements and covenants, specifications,        
and plans.                                         
     In case of a discrepancy between the          
gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
prevail.                                           
     Each bid must be accompanied by a             
Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or        
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
for the amount of Deposit required, as             
heretofore stated.                                 
      All work under this contract will be paid    
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
work completed in accordance with Section          
109 of the Missouri Standard Specifications        
for Highway Construction. Final payment,           
including all retained percentages, will be made   
within ten (10) days after completion of all       
work and final acceptance by the City.             
      The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
insure that in any contract entered into           
pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
business enterprises will be afforded full         
opportunity to submit bids in response to          
this invitation and will not be discriminated      
against on the grounds of race, color or national  
origin in consideration for an award. The DBE      
goal for this project is 20%.                      
       The Contract shall provide that not less    
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the   
 City of St. Louis as determined by the            
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations      
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type   
 of workmen needed in the actual construction      
 work on the site of the construction job herein   
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing     
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall    
 be paid to all workmen. Federal Wage rates        
 will also apply to this project. The Contractor   
 shall be required comply with Section 110.2       
 of the Missouri Standard Specifications for       
 Highway Construction.                             
      All labor to be performed under this         
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of    
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                     
       The prime contractor must have a fully      
 responsive contractor questionnaire on file       
 with the Missouri Highway and                     
 Transportation Commission at least 7 days         
 prior to bid opening date in order for MODOT      
 to concur with the award of this project.         
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 October 11, 2011.                                 
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
       The Board of Public Service will hold a     
 public hearing on Tuesday, November 1, 2011       
 in Room 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider   
 the following:                                    
      Hearing No. 8148 - Roderick Gilliam,         
 revocation of Conditional Use Permit No.          
 116283, to occupy 8128 Church as a                
 contracting business pursuant to City of St.      
 Louis Revised Code Sections 26.80.010,            
 26.80.060 and 26.100.030.                         
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                  President                        
 ATTEST:                                           
                  Cherise D. Thomas                
                  Secretary                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
            REVISED 10-10-11                       
     A public hearing will be held by the          
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on               
 Wednesday, November 2, 2011 in Room 208          
 City Hall to consider the following:             
        APPEAL #9858 - Appeal filed by            
 Lester's, from the determination of the          
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install one projecting sign, per plans, at 4653  
 Maryland. WARD 28 #AB492475-11                   
 ZONE: "H" - Area Commercial District             
       APPEAL #9859 - Appeal filed by A-1         
 Signs, from the determination of the Building    
 Commissioner in the denial of a building         
 permit authorizing the Appellant to install an   
 illuminated electronic reader board/wall sign,   
 per plans, at 1801 Russell. WARD 7               
 #AB490984-11 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-               
 hood Commercial District                         
       APPEAL #9860 - Appeal filed by Ajan        
 LLC, from the determination of the Building      
 Commissioner in the denial of a building         
 permit authorizing the Appellant to complete     
 interior and exterior alterations for a proposed 
 commercial use, per plans, at 1410 Dolman.       
 WARD 7 #AB492599-11 ZONE: "A" -                  
 Single Family Dwelling District                  
       APPEAL #9861 - Appeal filed by Epic        
 Pizza & Subs, from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to     
 install one non illuminated projecting sign, per 
 plans, at 1711A S. 9 th Street. WARD 7           
 #AB492891-11 ZONE: "D" - Multiple                
 Family Dwelling District                         
       APPEAL #9835 - Appeal filed by Epic        
 Pizza & Subs, from the determination of the      
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a         
 request to a previously issued variance          
 authorizing the Appellant to amend condition     
 #5, to complete interior and exterior alterations
 for a sit-down/carry-out restaurant with         
 sidewalk seating and 22% alcohol at 1711A S.     
 9th Street. (Amend) WARD 7 #AB491404-            
 11 ZONE: "D" - Multiple Family                   
 Dwelling District                                
       APPEAL #9773 - Appeal filed by The         
 Del Coronado Apartments, from the                
 determination of the Building Commissioner       
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing   
 the Appellant to do interior alterations to      
 convert the second floor office space to an      
 additional eleven residential units, per plans,  
 at 4933-39 West Pine. (Table) WARD 17            
 #AB489274-11 ZONE: "H" - Area                    
 Commercial District                              
      In accordance with the provisions of        
 ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
     By authority of the Board of                 
 Adjustment.                                      
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                       
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                     
     A public hearing will be held by the          
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on                
Wednesday, November 9, 2011 in Room 208            
City Hall to consider the following:               
      APPEAL #9862 - Appeal filed by D/B/          
A Tuscan Tavern and Grill, from the                
determination of the Building Commissioner         
in the denial of an occupancy permit               
authorizing the Appellant to operate a full        
drink bar and restaurant with sidewalk and         
rear garden seating, at 5800 Southwest, 1st floor  
only. WARD 10 #AO492944-11 ZONE:                   
"A" - Single Family Dwelling District              
      APPEAL #9863 - Appeal filed by               
nterior and Exterior Services, from the            
determination of the Building Commissioner         
in the denial of an occupancy permit               
authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto       
sales and repair business with outside storage     
(no painting) at 7520 Michigan. WARD 11            
#AO492772-11 ZONE: "C" - Multiple                  
Family Dwelling District                           
      APPEAL #9864 - Appeal filed by First         
Priority Development Center, from the              
etermination of the Building Commissioner in       
the denial of an occupancy permit authorizing      
the Appellant to operate a daycare center for      
30 infants, Sunday through Saturday, 6 a.m. -      
12 a.m. (no cooking) at 3557 California.           
WARD 20 #AO492993-11 ZONE: "B" -                   
Two Family Dwelling District                       
      APPEAL #9705 - Appeal filed by First         
Priority Development Center, from the              
determination of the Building Commissioner         
in the denial of a request to a previously issued  
variance authorizing the Appellant to amend        
condition #2 to allow the Appellant to change      
the hours of operation for a daycare center at     
3559-59A California. (Amend) WARD 20               
#AB487256-10 ZONE: "B" - Two Family                
Dwelling District                                  
      APPEAL #9845 - Appeal filed by               
Razzle Dazzle Learning Center, from the            
determination of the Building Commissioner         
in the denial of an occupancy permit               
authorizing the Appellant to operate a daycare     
center for 36 kids (17 infants and 19 kids 2 1/2   
- 12 years of age), Sunday through Saturday,       
6 a.m. - 12 a.m., with cooking at 8501-03          
Park Lane. (Cont) WARD 2 #AO491446-11              
ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling                 
District                                           
    APPEAL #9851 - Appeal filed by                 
Beautiful Beginnings Learning Center, from         
the determination of the Building                  
 Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy     
 permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a  
 daycare center for 60 kids (8 infants and 52   
 kids 2 1/2 - 12 years of age), Sunday through  
 Saturday, 6 a.m. - 12 a.m. (with cooking) at   
 8616 Newby. (Cont) WARD 2 #AO492521-           
 11 ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling          
 District                                       
      In accordance with the provisions of      
 ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.      
     By authority of the Board of               
 Adjustment.                                    
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                   
  PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                   
   A Conditional Use Hearing will be held       
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on          
 Thursday, November 3, 2011 on the              
 following conditional uses:                    
     5461 Milentz - Home Occupancy              
 Waiver - Tom the Window Man (Window &          
 Power Washing/Office Use Only) "A"-Single      
 Family Dwelling District. Db Ward 16           
      2803 Hadley - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Archway Medical Transportation (Non-         
 Emergency Transportation/Office Use Only)      
 "D" Multiple Family Dwelling District. Db      
 Ward 5                                         
      2818 N. Taylor - Home Occupancy           
 Waiver - Jerre-Jons Diversified Construction,  
 Inc. (General Construction/Handy Man           
 Services/Office Use Only) "F" Neighborhood     
 Commercial District. Db Ward 4                 
     5257 Lindell Blvd. - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - D'Artagnans Pet Supplies (Pet         
 Supplies/Office Use Only) "A" Single Family    
 Dwelling District. Bl Ward 28                  
      1627 McCausland - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Aaron Superstar Limousines            
 (Limousine Service/Office Use Only) " A "      
 Single Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 24    
      5911a S. Kingshighway - Home              
 Occupancy Waiver - Shamrock Carpet & Tile      
 Cleaning, LLC (Carpet & Tile Cleaning/Office   
 Use Only) "A" Single Family Dwelling           
 District. Db Ward 12                           
      4500 Hampton - #AB-492615-11 -            
 Bono's Pizzeria (Interior Alterations per      
 plans for Sit down Restaurant/5% Liquor) "F"   
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Bl           
 Ward 16                                        
     3033-43 N. Euclid - #AO-492918-11-         
 Northside Community School (School/1st         
 Grade Only/Bldgs. 1 & 2) "B" Two Family        
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 1                   
      2922 N. Sarah - #AO-493556-11-           
 Moore's Science Temple (Meeting Hall/Social   
 Gatherings/No Liquor or Cooking) "F"          
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Db Ward     
 4                                             
       858 Hodiamont - #AO-493579-11 -         
 Edward Crim Photography (Photography          
 Studio/Classes) "F" Neighborhood Commer-      
 cial District. Db Ward 26                     
       5074 Union - #AO-493662-11 - Little     
 Feet for Socks II Enrichment Center (Daycare/ 
 20 Children/4 Infants/16 2 1/2 to 12 yrs./6am 
 to Midnight/Sun-Sat)"F" Neighborhood          
 Commercial District. Db Ward 1                
      There will not be a Conditional Use      
 Hearing held in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30    
 a.m. on Thursday, November 10, 2011.          
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                
     The Housing, Urban Development and        
 Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of    
 Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on        
 November 2, 2011 at 10:00 A.M. in the         
 Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:              
        BOARD BILL NO. 169                     
           Introduced By                       
      Alderman Alfred Wessels                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the City    
 of St. Louis Planning Commission pertaining   
 to the procedures for the initiation of change
 and the requirements of the notice of proposed
 change in the Zoning Code; repealing portions 
 of Section Twenty-Four of Ordinance 59979,    
 codified as 26.92.010, 26.92.020, 26.92.030   
 and 26.92.040 of the City of St. Louis Revised
 Code, and enacting in lieu, thereof, new      
 sections pertaining to the same subject       
 matters; and containing a severability and    
 emergency clause.                             
      Any person wishing to speak for or       
 against the above cited board bill should be  
 present.                                      
      Sincerely,                               
      Donna A. Booker                          
      Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen       
 DEPARTMENT OF                                 
  PERSONNEL                                    
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                    
      The City of St. Louis, Department of     
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,      
 announces competitive Civil Service           
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
Service.                                           
      The last date for filing an application for  
the following examinations is NOVEMBER             
4, 2011,                                           
               LOCKSMITH                           
            Prom./O.C. 1838                        
$34,840 to $55,198 (Annual Salary Range)           
   WATER TREATMENT PLANT                           
       SUPERVISOR II                               
               Prom. 1837                          
    (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                        
          EMPLOYEES ONLY)                          
$41,834 to $66,456 (Annual Salary Range)           
     Applications for the following                
examination will be accepted until a sufficient    
number are received to fill the anticipated        
vacancies. Please submit application as soon       
as possible.                                       
FLEET MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN III                   
           (TRAINEE)                               
                O.C.C. 1836                        
       $36,478 (Annual Salary Range)               
      Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social      
Security, and Employee Retirement System           
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to    
salary.                                            
      Application forms and further                
information concerning duties of positions,        
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative   
weights of examination components, and             
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the   
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114        
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO              
63101. Applications can be submitted on the        
Internet. Visit the city web site at               
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with          
the City.                                          
                 Richard R. Frank,                 
                 Director                          
October 19, 2011                                   
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                              
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any              
individual or company who performs work            
within the City limits must obtain a Business      
License. This would also apply to businesses       
who employ sales or delivery personnel to          
come into the City. Contracts requiring work       
to be performed in the City will NOT be            
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                  
 ST. LOUIS LIVING                                 
 WAGE ORDINANCE                                   
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                       
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that     
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597       
 and associated Regulations apply to the          
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial     
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are     
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires     
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all      
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a       
 contract executed between the successful         
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]       
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable         
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached      
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are      
 adjusted during the term of the contract         
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates      
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder       
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living     
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance               
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure    
 to submit this Declaration with the bid          
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid   
 [proposal]. A successful bidder's                
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract    
 provisions related to the Living Wage            
 Ordinance may result in termination of the       
 contract and the imposition of additional        
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and      
 Regulations.                                     
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
 are available upon request from La Queta         
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be     
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living          
 wage.                                            
    SUPPLY                                        
 COMMISSIONER                                     
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,               
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,              
 OCTOBER 25, 2011 - INFORMAL and                  
 ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the          
 undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00  
 o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the  
 dates specified.                                 
    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2011                     
       PUMP REPAIR PARTS                          
 for Parks Department per Req. #105. (BF)         
           PIPE, BLACK IRON                       
 for Parks Department per Req. #109. (BF)         
               FILTER SAND                      
 for Water Division per Req. #1342. (BF)        
    CAST IRON TRENCH FRAMES                     
 for Water Division per Req. #1343. (BF)        
   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011                   
           WINDOW GRATES                        
 for Parks Department per Req. #107 & #108.     
 (BF)                                           
         LAVATORY SUPPLIES                      
 for Parks Department per Req. #110. (BF)       
                    PAINT                       
 for Parks Department per Req. #111. (BF)       
    PVC, IRRIGATION SUPPLIES                    
 for Parks Department per Req. #112. (BF)       
            ROOFING STEEL                       
 for Parks Department per Req. #114. (BF)       
            GOALS, SOCCER                       
 for Parks Department per Req. #115. (LC)       
      BALL VALVE & ACTUATOR                     
 for Airport Authority per Req. #188. (BF)      
   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2011                   
     SCHLAGE IC CORE PRIMUS                     
 for Parks Department per Req. #104. (BF)       
           LOCKS, SCHLAGE                       
 for Parks Department per Req. #106. (BF)       
           VALVES, ELECTRIC                     
 for Parks Department per Req. #113. (BF)       
  PAINT, CHLORINATED RUBBER -                   
         SWIMMING POOL                          
 for Parks Department per Req. #122. (BF)       
   DOUBLE CHECK BACKFLOWS                       
 for Water Division per Req. #1350. (BF)        
      Notice to All Suppliers                   
       It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
 that all firms desiring to do business with the
 City of St. Louis must comply with             
 employment practices that are in accordance    
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis   
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated    
 there-under to the end that all Contractors    
 and suppliers of materials and services will   
 offer equal opportunity for employment and     
 job advancement to blacks and other minority   
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.     
              Obtaining Bids                    
           To download bids log on to:          
  http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm  
 then, search available bids.                   
    You may also contact the Supply           
Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or    
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com          
      Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
30 days following the date of bid opening.    
If you desire bid results, please include a   
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
          Recycled Products                   
     The City of St. Louis desires to         
purchase recycled products whenever           
possible, especially items containing post    
consumer waste materials. If your company     
can supply recycled products, please provide  
information to this office.                   
           Surplus Property                   
     Notice is hereby given that the City of  
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale  
during the course of the year. The property   
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the   
City Journal.                                 
     The right to reject any and all bids is  
reserved.                                     
                Freddie L. Dunlap             
                Supply Commissioner           
                (314) 622-4580                
                www.stlouis-mo.gov            
