       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2012-2013                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
     Friday, June 8, 2012.        
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers June 8, 2012.                      
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,   
 Bosley, Hubbard, Triplett, Young, Conway,   
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, 
 Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,  
 Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,       
 Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson  
 and President Reed. 27                      
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
          HONORED GUESTS                     
      None.                                  
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                   
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for May 25, 2012.                   
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      To the President of the Board of       
 Aldermen:                                   
      I wish to report that on the 8th day of
June, 2012, I delivered to the Office of the       
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following       
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally  
adopted.                                           
          Board Bill No. 7                         
       (Committee Substitute)                      
     An Ordinance recommended by the               
Planning Commission on April 4, 2012, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on      
the District Map, from "A" Single Family           
Dwelling District, both "A" Single-Family          
Dwelling District & "D" Multiple-Family            
Dwelling District, "D" Multiple-Family             
Dwelling District and both, "D" Multiple-          
Family Dwelling District & "F" Neighborhood        
Commercial District to the "H" Area                
Commercial District, in City Blocks 2782.03,       
4592.04 and 4593 (6228, 6240, 6242, 6248,          
6252 & 6258 Berthold, and 1112, 1116, 1118         
& 1120 Graham, and 6129 Clayton, and 6201,         
6207, 6215, 6219-21, 6223, 6229 & 6233             
Berthold, and 1024R, 1028R, 1030 & 1032            
Graham, and 6200, 6208, 6212, 6220-22 &            
6224 Oakland), so as to include the described      
parcels of land in City Blocks 2782.03,            
4592.04 and 4593; and containing an                
emergency clause.                                  
            Board Bill No. 18                      
     An ordinance recommended by the Board         
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above    
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for        
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in       
LaSalle St. from Compton Ave. to Virginia Ave.     
and Virginia Ave. from Chouteau Ave. to            
LaSalle St. in the City of St. Louis, Missouri,    
as hereinafter described, in accordance with       
Charter authority, and in conformity with          
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and       
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.      
            Board Bill No. 39                      
      An Ordinance, recommended by the             
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis   
(the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a    
public works and improvement project for           
the Kingshighway Boulevard Bridge over the         
Union Pacific Railroad involving the               
reconstruction of the bridge and associated        
roadway improvements on Kingshighway               
Boulevard from Interstate 44 to Vandeventer        
Avenue, and the relocation and improvements        
of Shaw Avenue in the vicinity of                  
Kingshighway Boulevard (the "Kingshighway          
Bridge Reconstruction Over Union Pacific           
Project"); and authorizing and directing the       
City of St. Louis (the "City"), by and through     
its Board of Public Service, to let contracts      
and provide for Property Acquisition and           
Construction of the Kingshighway Bridge            
Reconstruction Over Union Pacific Project;         
authorizing the Board of Public Service to         
employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,        
 fees and wages, acquire any and all said real     
 and personal property rights and interests, in    
 whole or in part, including easements (by lease,  
 purchase, eminent domain, condemnation, or        
 otherwise), as necessary for completion of        
 the Kingshighway Bridge Reconstruction            
 Over Union Pacific Project, and to enter into     
 supplemental agreements with the Missouri         
 Highway and Transportation Commission,            
 Federal Highway Administration, utilities,        
 railroads, and other governmental agencies for    
 the Kingshighway Bridge Reconstruction            
 Over Union Pacific Project all in accordance      
 with the federal Transportation Equity Act        
 for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.),    
 with any contract containing sections for:        
 description of the work, material guarantees,     
 estimated expenditure allocations, fund           
 reversion authorization, applicable federal and   
 state wage rate requirements, equal               
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's              
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising        
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for    
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with    
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and     
 approved by the Board of Public Service before    
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all  
 construction contracts let by authority of this   
 Ordinance provide for federal and state           
 prevailing wage requirements including            
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and      
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the    
 State of Missouri, the City Charter and the       
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;             
 requiring all specifications approved by the      
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by      
 authority of this Ordinance provide for:          
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders      
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/             
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when            
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state      
 law or regulation; contractor's compliance        
 with the provisions of Sections 285.525 thru      
 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,      
 as amended, by requiring enrollment and           
 participation in a federal work authorization     
 program and no knowing employment of              
 unauthorized aliens; contractor's compliance      
 with the provisions of Section 292.675 of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended,         
 by providing a ten-hour Occupational Safety       
 and Health Administration construction safety     
 program for their on-site employees;              
 contractor's compliance with the provisions       
 of Section 34.057 of the Revised Statutes of      
 Missouri, as amended, (Prompt Payment/            
 Retainage), as applicable; requiring all          
 advertisements for bids pursuant to this          
 Ordinance be subject to the provisions of         
 Section 8.250 of the Revised Statutes of          
 Missouri., as amended; and appropriating          
 Eighteen Million, Five Hundred Thousand           
 Dollars ($18,500,000.00), in addition to Three    
 Million, Five Hundred Thousand Dollars           
 ($3,500,000.00) previously authorized by         
 Ordinance 68839, for the Kingshighway            
 Bridge Reconstruction Over Union Pacific         
 Project from various sources including the       
 Federal Highway Administration Safe,             
 Accountable,         Flexible,      Efficient    
 Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for          
 Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the Union Pacific        
 Railroad Company; authorizing and directing      
 the Comptroller of the City to draw warrants     
 from time to time and disburse funds             
 appropriated by this ordinance and to receive    
 and disburse grant funds in accordance with      
 the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st        
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the        
 signature and certification of vouchers by the   
 President of the Board of Public Service;        
 authorizing the Board of Public Service to       
 accept on behalf of the City monetary            
 donations from other governmental agencies       
 and others to assist in paying for the work      
 authorized in this Ordinance; and containing a   
 public work emergency clause.                    
             Board Bill No. 44                    
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
 all eastbound traffic traveling on Aldine        
 Avenue at Bishop P.L. Scott Avenue and           
 containing an emergency clause.                  
             Board Bill No. 45                    
       An ordinance pertaining to street          
 performers; repealing Section Four of            
 Ordinance 64105, which is codified as Section    
 20.55.030 of the Revised Code of the City of     
 St. Louis, and establishing conditions by which  
 street performers are issued permits, and        
 containing an emergency clause.                  
             Board Bill No. 47                    
       An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above  
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for      
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in the 
 easternmost 16' wide north/south alley           
 beginning at Papin and extending south to 16'    
 wide east/west alley, the 16' wide east/west     
 alley beginning at Pacific and extending west    
 to the westernmost 16' wide north/south alley    
 and the westernmost 16' wide north/south         
 alley beginning at Chouteau and extending        
 north to 16' wide east/west alley, all located in
 City Block 3946 and bounded by Papin,            
 Pacific, Chouteau and Vandeventer in the City    
 of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter           
 described, in accordance with Charter            
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4     
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
 certain conditions on such vacation.             
             Board Bill No. 50                    
      An ordinance recommended by the             
 Parking Commission making appropriation for      
payment of the operating expenses, capital      
equipment and improvement expenses,             
including lease purchase agreements involving   
Parking Division assets, and debt service       
expenses of the Parking Division of the         
Treasurer's Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,    
Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking       
Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility,      
Central Downtown Parking Facility,              
Buckingham Parking Facility, Cupples Parking    
Facility and Justice Parking Facility for the   
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending   
June 30, 2013, amounting in the aggregate to    
the sum of Fourteen Million, Twenty Seven       
Thousand, Forty Two Dollars ($14,027,042)       
and containing an emergency clause.             
     David W. Sweeney, Clerk                    
     Board of Aldermen                          
          Office of the Mayor                   
City of St. Louis                               
Room 200 City Hall                              
1200 Market Street                              
St. Louis, MO 63103                             
(314) 622-3201                                  
May 24, 2012                                    
Honorable Board of Aldermen                     
Room 230 City Hall                              
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                       
Dear Board Members:                             
     I have the honor to return to you          
herewith Board Bill Nos. 3, 4 (Committee        
Substitute), 8, 10, 21 and 38 with my approval  
endorsed thereon. These bills have an           
emergency clause.                               
     Sincerely,                                 
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                            
     Mayor                                      
City of St. Louis                               
Room 200 City Hall                              
1200 Market Street                              
St. Louis, MO 63103                             
(314) 622-3201                                  
June 7, 2012                                    
Honorable Board of Aldermen                     
Room 230 City Hall                              
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                       
Dear Board Members:                             
     I return to you herewith Board Bill No.    
6 (Committee Substitute) with my                
disapproval endorsed thereon.                   
     Sincerely,                                 
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                            
     Mayor                                      
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                      
     None.                                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                           
       None.                                      
          BOARD BILLS FOR                         
           THIRD READING                          
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
      None.                                       
            RESOLUTIONS                           
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
      None.                                       
            FIRST READING                         
            OF BOARD BILLS                        
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 86                     
        An Ordinance recommended and              
 approved by the Board of Estimate and            
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the      
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of      
 The City of St. Louis, Missouri (the "City")     
 to enter into and execute on behalf of the City  
 a Professional Service Agreement for Fleet       
 Vehicles & Special Equipment Maintenance/        
 Repair Services at Lambert-St. Louis             
 International Airport(R) (the "Airport") with    
 a five (5) year term ending August 31, 2017      
 (the "Agreement"), between the City and          
 Complete Auto Body & Repair, Inc. (the           
 "Consultant"), a State of Missouri               
 corporation, providing for the provision of      
 fleet vehicle & special equipment maintenance    
 and repair services to Airport vehicles and      
 equipment, subject to and in accordance with     
 provisions of the Agreement, which was           
 awarded to the Consultant and approved by a      
 City selection committee in accordance with      
 Ordinance 64102 approved July 16, 1997 and       
 was recommended and approved by the City's       
 Airport Commission, and which is attached        
 hereto as ATTACHMENT "1" and made a              
 part hereof; containing a severability clause;   
 and containing an emergency clause.              
 Board Member Kennedy introduced by               
 request:                                         
            Board Bill No. 87                     
       An ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and the       
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 ratifying and adopting the actions of the        
 Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.     
 Louis (the "City"), the owner and operator of    
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R) (the  
 "Airport"), in accepting and executing on        
 behalf of the City a certain grant agreement     
 offered by the United States of America (the     
 "Grant Agreement"), acting through the           
 Federal Aviation Administration of the United    
 States Department of Transportation, the         
 Grant Agreement being for Project Number 3-     
 29-0085-132-2012, dated May 15, 2012, for       
 a maximum federal obligation of Twelve          
 Million Seven Hundred Sixty Three Thousand      
 Eight Hundred Sixty Three Dollars               
 ($12,763,863), which is filed in the Office of  
 the City Register [Comptroller Document No.     
 64082], for the reimbursement of direct costs   
 associated with the rehabilitation of Runway    
 12R-30L (reconstruct 150 foot wide pavement     
 between Runway 12R Threshold and Taxiway        
 Sierra; repair cracks and replace select panels 
 between Taxiway Sierra and Runway 30L           
 Threshold); reconstruct intersection of         
 Runway 12R/30L and Runway 6/24 (Phase           
 2); and containing an emergency clause.         
 Board Member Carter introduced by               
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 88                   
      An ordinance adopting the Uniform          
 Plumbing Code, 2009 Edition, as the Plumbing    
 Code of the City of Saint Louis; repealing      
 Ordinance 66615, which adopted the Uniform      
 Plumbing Code, 2003 Edition; repealing          
 Ordinance 61713, Ordinance 62610,               
 Ordinance 62682, Ordinance 65031 and            
 Ordinance 65932, all of which modified          
 Ordinance 60826; and containing a penalty       
 clause, a savings clause and an emergency       
 clause.                                         
 Board Member Baringer introduced by             
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 89                   
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above 
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for     
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in the
 western 178.18'  10.28' of the 20 foot wide     
 east/west alley in City Block 6190 as bounded   
 by Chippewa St., Donovan Ave. and               
 Lansdowne Ave. in the City of St. Louis,        
 Missouri, as hereinafter described, in          
 accordance with Charter authority, and in       
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of    
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions     
 on such vacation.                               
 Board Member Krewson introduced by              
 request:                                        
             Board Bill No. 90                   
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above 
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for     
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in    
 irregular portion of Clayton Avenue abutting    
 City Block 5429-D and 7036 Clayton Avenue       
 between Skinker Avenue and Clayton Road in      
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter 
 described, in accordance with Charter           
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4    
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
certain conditions on such vacation.             
Board Member Triplett introduced by              
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 91                     
      An ordinance establishing stop site for    
all southbound traffic traveling on S. Compton   
Avenue at Halliday Avenue and containing an      
emergency clause.                                
Board Member Ogilvie introduced by               
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 92                     
     An ordinance pertaining to pedestrian       
access to buildings; establishing regulations    
for pedestrian access that primarily serves      
users of the subject property and for which      
dedication of public access rights is not        
required.                                        
Board Member Davis introduced by request:        
           Board Bill No. 93                     
      An ordinance amending ordinance No.        
68874 pertaining to the issuance and delivery    
of tax increment revenue notes for the Grand     
Center Redevelopment Project and authorizing     
a third supplemental trust indenture relating    
thereto; prescribing other matters relating      
thereto; and containing a severability clause    
and an emergency clause.                         
Board Members Krewson and President              
Reed introduced by request:                      
           Board Bill No. 94                     
      An ordinance, recommended by the           
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
authorizing a supplemental appropriation;        
amending Ordinance 68882, commonly               
referred to as the City of St. Louis Annual      
Operating Plan for Fiscal Year 2011 2012;        
appropriating and setting apart projected        
excess general fund revenues to address certain  
expenditures in the General Fund for the         
current fiscal year, in the amount of Three      
Million, Five Hundred Fifty Thousand             
Dollars ($3,550,000) as hereinafter detailed;    
and containing an emergency clause.              
Board Member Baringer introduced by              
request:                                         
           Board Bill No. 95                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study   
and redevelopment plan dated April 24, 2012      
for the 6928-6970; 6911-6973 Chippewa Ave.       
Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,   
the "Plan") after finding that said              
Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as       
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised         
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the            
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
 description of the boundaries of the Area in      
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
 of the Area is in the interest of the public      
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
 the people of the City; approving the Plan        
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430        
 RSMo, as amended; finding that no property        
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
 corporate and politic created under Missouri      
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;      
 finding that the property within the Area is      
 occupied, the Redeveloper(s) (as defined          
 herein) shall be responsible for providing        
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to     
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of   
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
 various officials, departments, boards and        
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
 exercise their respective powers in a manner      
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
 severability clause.                              
 Board Member Hubbard introduced by                
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 96                     
       An ordinance establishing stop site for     
 all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling     
 on N. 13th Street at Clinton Street and           
 containing an emergency clause.                   
 Board Member Williamson introduced by             
 request:                                          
             Board Bill No. 97                     
    An ordinance enacting a curfew for Marie       
 Fowler Park and Phillip J. Lucier Park,           
 containing an exception for persons holding       
 permits, and containing an emergency clause.      
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                        
        BOARD BILLS                                
          Convention and Tourism                   
                   None.                           
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions              
                 None.                             
        Health and Human Services                  
                  None.                            
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning               
       Board Bills No. 93 and 95.                  
         Intergovernmental Affairs                 
                   None.                           
                 Legislation                    
                   None.                        
        Neighborhood Development                
                  None.                         
     Parks and Environmental Matters            
             Board Bill No. 97.                 
       Personnel and Administration             
                  None.                         
              Public Employees                  
                    None.                       
               Public Safety                    
          Board Bills No. 88 and 92.            
               Public Utilities                 
                   None.                        
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse             
      Board Bills No. 89, 90, 91 and 96.        
      Transportation and Commerce               
         Board Bills No. 86 and 87.             
              Ways and Means                    
              Board Bill No. 94.                
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                     
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                      
       Mr. Wessels of the Committee on          
 Housing, Urban Development and Zoning          
 submitted the following report which was       
 read.                                          
      Board of Aldermen Committee report,       
 June 8, 2012.                                  
      To the President of the Board of          
 Aldermen:                                      
       The Committee on Housing, Urban          
 Development and Zoning to whom was             
 referred the following Board Bills, report that
 they have considered the same and recommend    
 adoption.                                      
             Board Bill No. 9                   
      An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on February 1, 2012,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated  
 on the District Map, from "C" Multiple-        
 Family Dwelling District and "G" Local         
 Commercial and Office District to the "F"      
 Neighborhood Commercial District only in       
 City Block 5217 (3617 Glasgow and 2900-50      
 Natural Bridge), so as to include the described
 parcels of land in City Block 5217; and        
 containing an emergency clause.                
            Board Bill No. 17                   
      An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on April 4, 2012, to       
 change the zoning of property as indicated on  
 the District Map, from "D" Multiple-Family     
 Dwelling District to the "F" Neighborhood      
 Commercial District, in City Block 628 (1712,  
 1714 & 1716 N. 14th Street and 1713 & 1715     
 N. 13th Street), so as to include the described
 parcels of land in City Block 628; and         
containing an emergency clause.                  
           Board Bill No. 19                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on September 6, 2006,        
to change the zoning of property as indicated    
on the District Map, from "A" Single-Family      
Dwelling District and "F" Neighborhood           
Commercial District to the "F" Neighborhood      
Commercial District only in City Block 5100      
(7201-03 Piccadilly), so as to include the       
described parcel of land in City Block 5100;     
and containing an emergency clause.              
           Board Bill No. 36                     
     An Ordinance amending Ordinance Nos.        
66494, 66752 and 67879 adopted by the Board      
of Aldermen on November 19, 2004, June 23,       
2005 and February 19, 2008, respectively;        
authorizing the execution of a Third             
Amendment to Redevelopment Agreement by          
and between the City and Adler Lofts, LLC;       
prescribing the form and details of said         
amendment; making certain findings with          
respect thereto; authorizing other related       
actions; and containing a severability clause.   
           Board Bill No. 48                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on May 2, 2012, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on    
the District Map, from "F" Neighborhood          
Commercial District to the "C" Multiple-         
Family Dwelling District, in City Block 1971     
(2900-08 Indiana), so as to include the          
described parcel of land in City Block 1971;     
and containing an emergency clause.              
           Board Bill No. 49                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on May 2, 2012, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on    
the District Map, from "K" Unrestricted          
District and both "K" Unrestricted District      
& "J" Industrial District to the "J" Industrial  
District only, in City Blocks 3248, 3259 and     
3266 (316 E. Catalan, 8718 S. Broadway &         
416 E. Catalan), so as to include the described  
parcels of land in City Blocks 3248, 3259 and    
3266; and containing an emergency clause.        
     Alderman Wessels                            
     Chairman of the Committee                   
     Mr. Carter of the Committee on Public       
Safety submitted the following report which      
was read.                                        
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
June 8, 2012.                                    
     To the President of the Board of            
Aldermen:                                        
    The Committee on Public Safety to            
whom was referred the following Board Bills,     
 report that they have considered the same and   
 recommend adoption.                             
            Board Bill No. 11                    
       An Ordinance pertaining to The            
 Firemen's Retirement System of St. Louis,       
 repealing Section Six of Ordinance 49623,       
 codified as Section 4.18.060 of the Revised     
 Code of the City of St. Louis, and enacting in  
 lieu thereof a new section pertaining to the    
 jurisdiction and authority of the trustees of   
 the The Firemen's Retirement System of St.      
 Louis; containing an emergency clause.          
      Alderman Carter                            
      Chairman of the Committee                  
            REPORT OF                            
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                       
      None.                                      
            PERFECTION                           
         CONSENT CALENDAR                        
      None.                                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
      None.                                      
           THIRD READING                         
         CONSENT CALENDAR                        
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and   
 final passage of Board Bills No. 14, 15 and     
 16.                                             
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                  
      Carried by the following vote:             
     Ayes: Bosley, Hubbard, Triplett, Young,     
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels,     
 Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,      
 Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,           
 Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter and           
 Krewson. 24                                     
      Noes: 0                                    
      Present: 0                                 
            Board Bill No. 14                    
       An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit    
 Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,   
 RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters    
 of St. Louis City on August 2, 1994, pursuant   
 to Ordinance 63168 creating the "City Public    
 Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund" directing the     
 Treasurer of the City of St. Louis to deposit   
 funds received pursuant to said sales tax into  
 the "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund   
 - Account ONE" appropriating $9,975,000         
 from the said sales tax for the period herein   
 stated to the Bi-State Development Agency       
 for certain purposes; providing for the         
 payment of such funds during the period July    
 1, 2012 through, June 30, 2013; further         
 providing that in no event shall the            
 Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer      
 for an amount greater than the amounts of the   
 proceeds deposited in the "City Public Transit  
 Sales Tax Trust Fund" during the period of      
 July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013; and         
 containing a severability clause.               
             Board Bill No. 15                   
       An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit    
 Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,   
 RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters    
 of St. Louis City on November 4, 1997,          
 pursuant to Ordinance 64111 creating the        
 "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund"      
 directing the Treasurer of the City of St. Louis
 to deposit funds received pursuant to said      
 sales tax into the "City Public Transit Sales   
 Tax Trust Fund - Account TWO"                   
 appropriating $9,975,000 from the said sales    
 tax for the period herein stated to the Bi-State
 Development Agency for certain purposes;        
 providing for the payment of such funds         
 during the period July 1, 2012 through, June    
 30, 2013; further providing that in no event    
 shall the Comptroller draw warrants on the      
 Treasurer for an amount greater than the        
 amounts of the proceeds deposited in the        
 "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund"      
 during the period of July 1, 2012 through June  
 30, 2013; and containing a severability clause. 
             Board Bill No. 16                   
       An ordinance appropriating the sum of     
 $19,950,000, as described and defined in        
 Section 94.600 through 94.655, R.S. Mo. 2000    
 as amended for the period herein stated, which  
 sum is hereby appropriated out of the           
 "Transportation Trust Fund" to the Bi-State     
 Development Agency for transportation           
 purposes; and further providing that the        
 appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State  
 Development Agency supplying the Board          
 of Estimate and Apportionment an annual         
 evaluation report; further providing that in no 
 event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on    
 the Treasurer for an amount greater than the    
 amount of proceeds deposited in the             
 "Transportation Trust Fund" during the          
 period from July 1, 2012 through June 30,       
 2013; providing for the appropriation to be     
 reduced if certain funds are used for other than
 public transit purposes; further providing that 
 the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State  
 requiring the payment of prevailing wages and   
 benefits to employees of outside service        
 contractors; and containing a severability      
 clause.                                         
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                      
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                       
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                          
        OF BOARD BILLS                           
      None.                                      
        REPORT OF THE                             
    ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                          
     Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,         
St. Louis, June 8, 2012.                          
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Engrossed and              
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the           
following Board Bills report that they have       
considered the same and they are truly            
enrolled.                                         
            Board Bill No. 14                     
      An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit      
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,     
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters      
of St. Louis City on August 2, 1994, pursuant     
to Ordinance 63168 creating the "City Public      
Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund" directing the       
Treasurer of the City of St. Louis to deposit     
funds received pursuant to said sales tax into    
the "City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund     
- Account ONE" appropriating $9,975,000           
from the said sales tax for the period herein     
stated to the Bi-State Development Agency         
for certain purposes; providing for the           
payment of such funds during the period July      
1, 2012 through, June 30, 2013; further           
providing that in no event shall the              
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer        
for an amount greater than the amounts of the     
proceeds deposited in the "City Public Transit    
Sales Tax Trust Fund" during the period of        
July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013; and           
containing a severability clause.                 
            Board Bill No. 15                     
      An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit      
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,     
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters      
of St. Louis City on November 4, 1997,            
pursuant to Ordinance 64111 creating the          
"City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund"        
directing the Treasurer of the City of St. Louis  
to deposit funds received pursuant to said        
sales tax into the "City Public Transit Sales     
Tax Trust Fund - Account TWO"                     
appropriating $9,975,000 from the said sales      
tax for the period herein stated to the Bi-State  
Development Agency for certain purposes;          
providing for the payment of such funds           
during the period July 1, 2012 through, June      
30, 2013; further providing that in no event      
shall the Comptroller draw warrants on the        
Treasurer for an amount greater than the          
amounts of the proceeds deposited in the          
"City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund"        
during the period of July 1, 2012 through June    
30, 2013; and containing a severability clause.   
            Board Bill No. 16                     
     An ordinance appropriating the sum of        
 $19,950,000, as described and defined in          
 Section 94.600 through 94.655, R.S. Mo. 2000      
 as amended for the period herein stated, which    
 sum is hereby appropriated out of the             
 "Transportation Trust Fund" to the Bi-State       
 Development Agency for transportation             
 purposes; and further providing that the          
 appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State    
 Development Agency supplying the Board            
 of Estimate and Apportionment an annual           
 evaluation report; further providing that in no   
 event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on      
 the Treasurer for an amount greater than the      
 amount of proceeds deposited in the               
 "Transportation Trust Fund" during the            
 period from July 1, 2012 through June 30,         
 2013; providing for the appropriation to be       
 reduced if certain funds are used for other than  
 public transit purposes; further providing that   
 the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State    
 requiring the payment of prevailing wages and     
 benefits to employees of outside service          
 contractors; and containing a severability        
 clause.                                           
      Alderman Vollmer                             
      Chairman of the Committee                    
      Board Bills Numbered 14, 15 and 16 were      
 read and all other business being suspended,      
 Ms. Young, in the presence of the Board and       
 in open session, affixed her signature in         
 accordance with the provisions of the Charter.    
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                         
        CONSENT CALENDAR                           
      President Reed introduced Resolutions        
 No. 37 through 57 and No. 59 and the Clerk        
 was instructed to read same.                      
            Resolution No. 37                      
        Austin Joseph Danback                      
      WHEREAS, Austin Joseph Danback of            
 St. Louis, Missouri, received the prestigious     
 rank of Eagle Scout during a Court Honor          
 ceremony held on April 19, 2012; and              
     WHEREAS, Austin, a member of Boy              
 Scout Troop 212, successfully met the             
 requirements to attain Eagle status by            
 completing his Eagle project which involved       
 making improvements to an old garden at 5120      
 Wilson Avenue, which is now called the            
 "Respect Life Garden"; and                        
      WHEREAS, during his eight years in           
 Scouting, Austin mastered several challenging     
 and diverse skills to earn thirty merit badges,   
 the God and Me award, the God and Country         
 award, the Mile Swim award, and Brotherhood       
 membership in the Order of the Arrow, where       
 has served as a Ceremonial Chief; and             
      WHEREAS, Austin demonstrated his             
 capability and willingness to exert leadership    
 by fulfilling the duties and responsibilities of
 Patrol Leader and Troop Guide; and              
      WHEREAS, the son of Ronald J.              
 Danback and Christine M. Agnew-Danback,         
 Austin developed immense personal growth        
 and fitness by participating in the many        
 assorted activities the Boy Scouts offers, some 
 of which include attending various summer       
 camps; and                                      
       WHEREAS, those familiar with              
 Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout 
 is a goal sought by many but attained by few;   
 requiring intelligence, perseverance and a      
 strong sense of service to your community;      
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, Austin's attainment of the        
 Eagle rank will be recognized at all levels of  
 our society as being a great achievement that   
 required considerable dedication and effort.    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis, being apprised of the    
 significant recognition to be bestowed on       
 Austin Joseph Danback at the Eagle Scout        
 Court of Honor, and wishing in some small       
 way to add our congratulations and best wishes  
 to Austin and his family, we pause in our       
 deliberations to consider and adopt this        
 resolution and instruct the Clerk of this Board 
 to spread a copy of this Resolution over the    
 permanent rolls of the Board and to further     
 prepare a memorial copy of this Resolution      
 so that it may be presented to our honoree as   
 deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
 Introduced on the 1st day of June, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward    
            Resolution No. 38                    
            Arthur H. Lieber                     
      WHEREAS, Arthur H. Lieber, Jr. co-         
 founded Crossroads School in 1974, when he      
 was only 27 years of age; and                   
      WHEREAS, the first location of the         
 school was in Laclede Town in Midtown of        
 the City of Saint Louis; and                    
      WHEREAS, the second location was on        
 Lindell Boulevard in the Central West End of    
 the City of Saint Louis, serving 75 students;   
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, the school's third location       
 at 500 DeBaliviere Avenue opened in 1980,       
 aided in enhancing and revitalizing a           
 community by renovating an abandoned            
 grocery store and offering an education to 125  
 students and expanded to the twelfth grade;     
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, the first senior class of 12      
 students graduated in 1982 and more than 845    
have graduated since that time; and              
      WHEREAS, Crossroads has matured            
into an academic institution that brings         
students from 60 zip codes around the region     
to the City of Saint Louis and continues to      
positively impact the community.                 
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our     
deliberations to congratulate and recognize      
Arthur H. Lieber on the 30th anniversary of      
the first high school graduating class of        
Crossroads College Preparatory School and        
for his many contributions to the City of Saint  
Louis and we further direct the Clerk of this    
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution        
across the minutes of these proceedings and      
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end       
that it may be presented to our honoree at a     
time and place deemed appropriate by the         
Sponsor.                                         
Introduced on the 1st day of June, 2012 by:      
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward      
           Resolution No. 39                     
      John Abraham Bouhasin                      
     WHEREAS, John Abraham Bouhasin              
was born June 19, 1972 to Dr. John Bouhasin      
and Nina Khoury; and                             
     WHEREAS, John graduated in 1990             
from St. Louis University High School with a     
soccer scholarship to St. Louis University;      
and                                              
     WHEREAS, John graduated from St.            
Louis University in 1994 and from St. Louis      
University School of Law where he graduated      
Magna Cum Laude; and                             
      WHEREAS, John worked for the City          
of St. Louis as the Assistant City Counselor     
from 1997 until 2005. On January 1, 2006 he      
started his own practice, the Bouhasin Law       
Firm; and                                        
     WHEREAS, the Bouhasin Law Firm              
represents the St. Louis Metropolitan Police     
Department; and                                  
     WHEREAS, John and Annie Gitto's             
son, Georgie Abraham Bouhasin, was born on       
January 10, 2011.                                
        NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to recognize John Abraham          
Bouhasin and we direct the Clerk of this Board   
to spread a copy of this Resolution across the   
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a    
commemorative copy to the end that it may        
be presented to our honoree at a time and        
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 1st day of June, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward     
            Resolution No. 40                    
        John D. Bouhasin, MD                     
      WHEREAS, John D. Bouhasin was born         
 on February 10, 1931 to Abraham Bouhasin        
 and Regina Kawkabani; and                       
      WHEREAS, John Bouhasin married             
 Nina Khoury in Bkerke, Lebanon on               
 September 11, 1969; and                         
      WHEREAS, John received his Bachelor        
 Degree from Saint Louis University in 1952      
 and his medical degree from St. Louis School    
 of Medicine in 1957; and                        
      WHEREAS, Dr. Bouhasin completed            
 his internship in 1958 and his Pediatrics       
 Residency in 1961 at the Saint Louis            
 University Group of Hospitals; and              
       WHEREAS, In 1961 Dr. Bouhasin             
 assisted in Hematology Pediatrics research and  
 was an instructor in the Department of          
 Pediatrics at St. Louis University of Medicine  
 from 1961 until 1964. From 1961 until 1990      
 he was the Director of Coagulation Research     
 Laboratory, Department of Pediatrics at St.     
 Louis University Medical Center; and            
      WHEREAS, in October 1962 Dr.               
 Bouhasin established the first Multi-           
 Disciplinary Hemophilia Treatment Center in     
 the United States at Cardinal Glennon           
 Memorial Hospital for Children where he also    
 served as Medical Director. In 2005 the HTC     
 Center was renamed "The John D. Bouhasin        
 MD Center for Children with Bleeding            
 Disorders" in his honor. ; and                  
      WHEREAS, Dr. Bouhasin has held many        
 other positions including the Clinical          
 Professor of Pediatrics, Director of the        
 Comprehensive Immunodeficiency (Aids)           
 Clinic and the Director of the Division of      
 Hemostasis and Thrombosis, Department of        
 Pediatrics at St. Louis University Medical      
 Center; and                                     
      WHEREAS, Dr. Bouhasin was a member         
 of the Missouri State Board of Health, the      
 Missouri State Genetics Advisory Board, and     
 the Missouri State Task Force on AIDS; and      
      WHEREAS, Dr Bouhasin retired               
 August 1, 2005 as the Clinical Professor        
 Emeritus at St. Louis University Medical        
 Center; and                                     
       WHEREAS, Dr. Bouhasin has three           
 children, Claudine Bouhasin Adem BSN, John      
 Abraham Bouhasin JD, and Andre' Paul            
 Bouhasin MD, and four grandchildren, Carla,     
 Anthony and Gabriella Adem and Georgie          
 Bouhasin.                                       
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our      
 deliberations to recognize John D. Bouhasin,    
 MD and we direct the Clerk of this Board to     
 spread a copy of this Resolution across the     
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a   
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree at a time and       
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 1st day of June, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward     
            Resolution No. 41                    
            Erna Ursula Martin                   
      WHEREAS, we pause in our                   
 deliberations to note the passing of St. Louis  
 resident, Erna Ursula Martin; and               
      WHEREAS, Erna Ursula Theriot               
 Martin was born in New Orleans, Lousiana        
 on August 31, 1920 to the union of Augusta      
 Reine and William J. Theriot. She was           
 baptized and confirmed at Corpus Christi        
 Catholic Church in New Orleans. She attended    
 Corpus Christi Catholic Grade School, Xavier    
 Prep High School and Straight Business          
 College; and                                    
       WHEREAS, in 1942, Erna came to St.        
 Louis to marry Clifton P. Martin, after asking  
 permission from her mother. They were           
 married on April 6, 1942 at St. Malachy         
 Catholic Church. In July 1942, Clifton was      
 drafted into the U.S. Army, and served in the   
 Philippines during World Warr II. Erna          
 returned to New Orleans where Janice and        
 Carmele were born. Jean Paula, Clifton, Jr.     
 and Claire were born in St. Louis; and          
       WHEREAS, Erna and Clifton moved on        
 Belle Glade Avenue in the Ville neighborhood    
 in 1942 and raised their family. Her door and   
 table were always open to her neighbors and     
 church family. Traditional family customs       
 were Sunday dinners; backyard barbecues and     
 your favorite birthday dinner with cake and     
 ice cream for each family member. She was       
 active in her neighborhood block unit,          
 children's schools and St. Matthew Church.      
 She also voted in every political election until
 2009; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Erna was touched by faith        
 and attended daily Mass at St. Matthew even     
 though in the early years she was restricted to 
 the back four pews. She never let that stop     
 her from practicing her faith. Erna was one of  
 the first black parishioners to join the Ladies 
 Sodality at St. Matthew. As a member of the     
 Sodality, she helped with the parish card       
party, fish fries, ice cream socials, and she     
sold religious articles before and after Mass     
on Sundays; and                                   
      WHEREAS, Erna was a homemaker               
until 1973, when she helped start Northside       
Community Center. She was the nutrition           
director for the senior dining and Meals-On-      
Wheels program for over 25 years; and             
     WHEREAS, her fondest memory was              
attending her children and grandchildren high     
school and college graduations. Each grandchild   
received a personal crocheted afghan when         
they went off to college; and                     
      WHEREAS, Erna was preceded in death         
by her parents, her husband, sisters and          
grandson. She will always be remembered by        
her children; Janice (Walter) Wesley, Carmele     
(Jerry) Hall, Jean Anthony, Clifton (Carolyn)     
Martin, Jr., Claire Hay. Her ten grandchildren:   
Carmela (Robert) Richard, Christine Anthony,      
Jason (Allyson) Hall, Vanessa Wesley, Crystal     
(Eric) Nicholson, Marvin (Tracey) Hay,            
Choendal (Geferl) Zasaretti, Kacey (Javon)        
Johnson, Kelly (Alprentice) Young and             
Karmyn Martin. Also, ten great grandchildren,     
nieces, nephews, cousins and special friends.     
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
the City of St. Louis that we pause to            
remember the many contributions of Erna           
Ursula Martin to the citizens of the City of      
St. Louis and we join with her many friends in    
expressing our sorrow at her passing, and we      
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
of these proceedings and to prepare a memorial    
copy for presentation to the Martin family,       
at a time and place deemed appropriate by         
the Sponsor.                                      
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
Honorable Samuel L. MooreAlderman 4th Ward        
           Resolution No. 42                      
         Mr. Willie Earl Adams                    
     WHEREAS, we pause in our                     
deliberations to note the passing of St. Louis    
resident, Willie Earl Adams; and                  
     WHEREAS, Brother Willie Earl Adams           
known to most as "Crip" was born October          
24 to the union of Arzell & Easter Marie          
Adams-Palmer (both preceded him in death)         
in Covington, Tennessee where he was born         
and raised by his paternal grandparents until     
the age of thirteen. He later moved to St.        
Louis with his parents and remained. Willie       
Adams was called home on May 15, 2012 at          
9:05 a.m. in the comfort of his love ones; and    
    WHEREAS, Willie confessed his hope            
in Christ in 1979 under the leadership of         
 Pastor Washington as a young man. It wasn't         
 until his later years that he joined Pentecostal    
 Saints Tabernacle, where he was saved and           
 filled with the Holy Ghost in Jesus' Name.          
 Brother Adams was a member of Pentecostal           
 Saints Tabernacle under the leadership of           
 Bishop James A. Stewart; and                        
       WHEREAS, Willie was educated in the           
 St. Louis Public Schools and continued his          
 education by completing some levels of college      
 but he went on to complete his trades in            
 carpentry, electrical, and welding. "Crip" as       
 most knew him, was a hard worker and handy          
 man by nature. If it was broke he could fix it.     
 No matter if it was a missing screw or a tuck-      
 pointing job; he would get his crew together        
 (including his daughter) or just work alone to      
 get the job done, the correct way the first         
 time. Up to the day of his departure, he was        
 found still working with his hands smudged          
 with tar; and                                       
      WHEREAS, one could never talk about            
 Willie and not talk about "His Wife", Sharon        
 Diane Adams (who preceded him in death              
 May 10, 2010). Willie and Sharon were grade         
 school sweethearts and it continued through         
 high school. They later married on February         
 5, 1972 and with this union they had four           
 beautiful, smart, and loving daughters. Willie      
 and Sharon's lives revolved around their girls;     
 and                                                 
       WHEREAS, Willie Adams was a man               
 who valued laughter and family. He loved to         
 make things work. His heart was at ease if he       
 could make someone smile. He could make             
 you smile with his quick wit or his ability to      
 fix an issue; and                                   
       WHEREAS, he was superman because              
 in spite of his disabilities he still tuck-pointed  
 and fixed roofs like the best in the industry.      
 His daughters were blessed with an awesome          
 mother and an amazing father.                       
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to              
 remember the many contributions of Willie           
 Earl Adams to the citizens of the City of St.       
 Louis and we join with his many friends in          
 expressing our sorrow at his passing, and we        
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread    
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes        
 of these proceedings and to prepare a memorial      
 copy for presentation to the Adams family, at       
 a time and place deemed appropriate by the          
 Sponsor.                                            
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:         
 Honorable Samuel L. MooreAlderman 4th Ward          
            Resolution No. 43                    
         Mr. Jermaine D. Hayes                   
      WHEREAS, we pause in our                   
 deliberations to note the passing of St. Louis  
 resident, Jermaine D. Hayes; and                
      WHEREAS, Jermaine was born to the          
 union of June Brown and Jerry Hayes in St.      
 Louis, Missouri on April 4, 1976; and           
       WHEREAS, Jermaine was a member of         
 St. James A.M.E. Church where in confessed      
 his life to Christ at an early age. He was      
 faithful member of the Junior Usher Board       
 for many years; and                             
       WHEREAS, he attended school in the        
 Ladue School District. Jermaine was an avid     
 varsity basketball player at Ladue High School  
 for four years. After graduating from high      
 school, he earned a Bachelor's Degree in        
 Marketing from Kentucky State University.       
 Jermaine excelled and earned his Master's       
 Degree in Business Administration from          
 Webster University and went on to pursue a      
 second Master's Degree in Finance; and          
       WHEREAS, Jermaine was a hard              
 worker, conscientious, career driven, very      
 successful, wise, caring, fun-loving and always 
 had a beautiful smile. At a young age, Jermaine 
 was appointed to a supervisory position at      
 Daimler Chrysler where he received several      
 awards of excellence and recognition. He later  
 moved forward in his career and became an       
 Area Manager and in August 2008, he received    
 a ring for ten years of outstanding service with
 Chrysler. Following organizational changes      
 at Chrysler, Jermaine pursued a management      
 opportunity at Express Scripts; and             
      WHEREAS, Jermaine was a loyal              
 member of the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity. He      
 loved to pass time with his frat brothers; and  
      WHEREAS, Jermaine departed this life       
 on October 2, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. to be in the   
 presence of God following his illness. His      
 grandparents, Longworth Bell (Olga) preceded    
 him in death; and                               
       WHEREAS, to cherish his beautiful and     
 loving memories he leaves: a wife, Marcelon     
 (Bambi) Hayes; his mother June (Alfred)         
 Brown; father, Jerry (Jackie) Hayes;            
 daughters, D'Asha Mosby and Laila Hayes;        
 grandparent , Lou Ella Hayes; one step          
 brother, 3 sisters-in-law, one brother-in-law,  
 a host of uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews, other 
 relatives and friends.                          
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to          
 remember the many contributions of Jermaine     
 D. Hayes to the citizens of the City of St.     
Louis and we join with his many friends in        
expressing our sorrow at his passing, and we      
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
of these proceedings and to prepare a memorial    
copy for presentation to the Hayes family, at     
a time and place deemed appropriate by the        
Sponsor.                                          
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
Honorable Samuel L. MooreAlderman 4th Ward        
           Resolution No. 44                      
             Mike Jones                           
      WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor            
Initiative (MCI) was founded through a            
partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-       
Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and          
Development, Inc in 2010; and                     
     WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to            
provide training, capacity building and           
technical assistance to minority and women        
owned companies in the field of construction;     
and                                               
      WHEREAS, MCI continues to put its           
clients through a rigorous set of training        
programs covering a multitude of construction     
related topics and                                
     WHEREAS, MCI is proud of its clients         
who utilize the principles they have learned      
from MCI as they refine and grow their            
businesses; and                                   
     WHEREAS, Mr. Mike Jones of MJ                
Enterprises, LLC is to be commended for his       
commitment to the curriculum developed by         
MCI as he continues to strive for and achieve     
excellence in the construction marketplace.       
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of                
Aldermen that we hereby pause in our              
deliberations to congratulate you for investing   
in yourself and your company and wish you         
continued success in your professional and        
personal endeavors and we further direct the      
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this      
Resolution across the minutes of these            
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
copy to the end that it may be presented to       
our honoree on June 26, 2012 at the 2nd annual    
MCI awards luncheon held at Sweetie Pie's         
Upper Crust.                                      
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward         
           Resolution No. 45                      
               Chris Ward                         
      WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor            
Initiative (MCI) was founded through a            
partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-       
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and         
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                    
      WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
 provide training, capacity building and          
 technical assistance to minority and women       
 owned companies in the field of construction;    
 and                                              
       WHEREAS, MCI continues to put its          
 clients through a rigorous set of training       
 programs covering a multitude of construction    
 related topics and                               
      WHEREAS, MCI is proud of its clients        
 who utilize the principles they have learned     
 from MCI as they refine and grow their           
 businesses; and                                  
      WHEREAS, Chris Ward of C. Ward              
 Construction, Inc. is to be commended for his    
 commitment to the curriculum developed by        
 MCI as he continues to strive for and achieve    
 excellence in the construction marketplace.      
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of               
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our             
 deliberations to congratulate you for investing  
 in yourself and your company and wish you        
 continued success in your professional and       
 personal endeavors and we further direct the     
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this     
 Resolution across the minutes of these           
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that it may be presented to      
 our honoree on June 26, 2012 at the 2nd annual   
 MCI awards luncheon held at Sweetie Pie's        
 Upper Crust.                                     
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward        
            Resolution No. 46                     
             Raymond Ryales                       
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor           
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a           
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-      
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and         
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                    
      WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
 provide training, capacity building and          
 technical assistance to minority and women       
 owned companies in the field of construction;    
 and                                              
       WHEREAS, MCI continues to put its          
 clients through a rigorous set of training       
 programs covering a multitude of construction    
 related topics and                               
      WHEREAS, MCI is proud of its clients        
 who utilize the principles they have learned     
 from MCI as they refine and grow their           
 businesses; and                                  
       WHEREAS, Raymond Ryales of Ready         
 to Roll Concrete, LLC is to be commended       
 for his commitment to the curriculum           
 developed by MCI as he continues to strive     
 for and achieve excellence in the construction 
 marketplace.                                   
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of             
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our           
 deliberations to congratulate you for investing
 in yourself and your company and wish you      
 continued success in your professional and     
 personal endeavors and we further direct the   
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this   
 Resolution across the minutes of these         
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative     
 copy to the end that it may be presented to    
 our honoree on June 26, 2012 at the 2nd annual 
 MCI awards luncheon held at Sweetie Pie's      
 Upper Crust.                                   
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:    
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward     
            Resolution No. 47                   
              Charles Moore                     
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor         
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a         
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-    
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and       
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                  
      WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to         
 provide training, capacity building and        
 technical assistance to minority and women     
 owned companies in the field of construction;  
 and                                            
       WHEREAS, MCI continues to put its        
 clients through a rigorous set of training     
 programs covering a multitude of construction  
 related topics and                             
      WHEREAS, MCI is proud of its clients      
 who utilize the principles they have learned   
 from MCI as they refine and grow their         
 businesses; and                                
       WHEREAS, Charles Moore of Alliance       
 Certified Restoration, LLC is to be            
 commended for his commitment to the            
 curriculum developed by MCI as he continues    
 to strive for and achieve excellence in the    
 construction marketplace.                      
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of             
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our           
 deliberations to congratulate you for investing
 in yourself and your company and wish you      
 continued success in your professional and     
 personal endeavors and we further direct the   
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this   
 Resolution across the minutes of these         
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative     
copy to the end that it may be presented to      
our honoree on June 26, 2012 at the 2nd annual   
MCI awards luncheon held at Sweetie Pie's        
Upper Crust.                                     
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward       
           Resolution No. 48                     
             Michael Burns                       
      WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor           
Initiative (MCI) was founded through a           
partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-      
Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and         
Development, Inc in 2010; and                    
     WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
provide training, capacity building and          
technical assistance to minority and women       
owned companies in the field of construction;    
and                                              
      WHEREAS, MCI continues to put its          
clients through a rigorous set of training       
programs covering a multitude of construction    
related topics and                               
     WHEREAS, MCI is proud of its clients        
who utilize the principles they have learned     
from MCI as they refine and grow their           
businesses; and                                  
      WHEREAS, Michael Burns of Alliance         
Certified Restoration, LLC is to be              
commended for his commitment to the              
curriculum developed by MCI as he continues      
to strive for and achieve excellence in the      
construction marketplace.                        
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of               
Aldermen that we hereby pause in our             
deliberations to congratulate you for investing  
in yourself and your company and wish you        
continued success in your professional and       
personal endeavors and we further direct the     
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this     
Resolution across the minutes of these           
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
copy to the end that it may be presented to      
our honoree on June 26, 2012 at the 2nd annual   
MCI awards luncheon held at Sweetie Pie's        
Upper Crust.                                     
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward       
           Resolution No. 49                     
             Howard Hayes                        
      WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor           
Initiative (MCI) was founded through a           
partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-      
Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and         
Development, Inc in 2010; and                    
     WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
 provide training, capacity building and           
 technical assistance to minority contractors      
 in the field of construction; and                 
      WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the           
 most comprehensive plan room in the State         
 of Missouri through a strategic partnership       
 with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which            
 allows minority and women owned companies         
 to review and bid on construction projects;       
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, over MCI continues to               
 engage its clients by hosting on going            
 "contractor briefing sessions"; and               
      WHEREAS, a combination of over 125           
 minority and women owned construction             
 companies have worked with MCI director           
 Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"            
 technical assistance; and                         
       WHEREAS, the success of the MCI             
 program has also been due greatly to those        
 individuals, companies and agencies who have      
 given selflessly in support of growing more       
 successful minority and women owned               
 construction companies and                        
       WHEREAS, Howard Hayes, director of          
 Minority Business Development for the St.         
 Louis Development Corporation has served          
 as a pillar of the MCI program by providing       
 on going support of its efforts.                  
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of                
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our              
 deliberations to thank our honoree and we         
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
 of these proceedings and to prepare a             
 commemorative copy to the end that it may         
 be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012      
 at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held        
 at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                     
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward         
            Resolution No. 50                      
               Elmer Rhodes                        
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor            
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a            
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-       
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and          
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                     
       WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
 provide training, capacity building and           
 technical assistance to minority contractors      
 in the field of construction; and                 
      WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the           
 most comprehensive plan room in the State         
 of Missouri through a strategic partnership       
 with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which          
 allows minority and women owned companies       
 to review and bid on construction projects;     
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, over MCI continues to             
 engage its clients by hosting on going          
 "contractor briefing sessions"; and             
      WHEREAS, a combination of over 125         
 minority and women owned construction           
 companies have worked with MCI director         
 Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"          
 technical assistance; and                       
       WHEREAS, the success of the MCI           
 program has also been due greatly to those      
 individuals, companies and agencies who have    
 given selflessly in support of growing more     
 successful minority and women owned             
 construction companies and                      
       WHEREAS, Elmer Rhodes, president          
 of Cross Rhodes Reprographics has served as     
 a pillar of the MCI program by providing on     
 going support of its efforts.                   
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of              
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our            
 deliberations to thank our honoree and we       
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012    
 at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held      
 at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                   
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18thWard       
            Resolution No. 51                    
             Dr. Albert Walker                   
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor          
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a          
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-     
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and        
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                   
       WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to         
 provide training, capacity building and         
 technical assistance to minority contractors    
 in the field of construction; and               
      WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the         
 most comprehensive plan room in the State       
 of Missouri through a strategic partnership     
 with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which          
 allows minority and women owned companies       
 to review and bid on construction projects;     
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, over MCI continues to             
 engage its clients by hosting on going          
 "contractor briefing sessions"; and             
     WHEREAS, a combination of over 125           
minority and women owned construction             
companies have worked with MCI director           
Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"            
technical assistance; and                         
      WHEREAS, the success of the MCI             
program has also been due greatly to those        
individuals, companies and agencies who have      
given selflessly in support of growing more       
successful minority and women owned               
construction companies and                        
     WHEREAS, Dr. Albert Walker,                  
President of Harris-Stowe State University        
has served as a pillar of the MCI program by      
providing on going support of its efforts.        
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of                
Aldermen that we hereby pause in our              
deliberations to thank our honoree and we         
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
of these proceedings and to prepare a             
commemorative copy to the end that it may         
be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012      
at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held        
at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                     
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward         
           Resolution No. 52                      
          Tasha Pettis-Bonds                      
      WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor            
Initiative (MCI) was founded through a            
partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-       
Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and          
Development, Inc in 2010; and                     
      WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
provide training, capacity building and           
technical assistance to minority contractors      
in the field of construction; and                 
     WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the           
most comprehensive plan room in the State         
of Missouri through a strategic partnership       
with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which            
allows minority and women owned companies         
to review and bid on construction projects;       
and                                               
     WHEREAS, over MCI continues to               
engage its clients by hosting on going            
"contractor briefing sessions"; and               
     WHEREAS, a combination of over 125           
minority and women owned construction             
companies have worked with MCI director           
Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"            
technical assistance; and                         
     WHEREAS, the success of the MCI              
program has also been due greatly to those        
 individuals, companies and agencies who have      
 given selflessly in support of growing more       
 successful minority and women owned               
 construction companies and                        
      WHEREAS, Tasha Pettis-Bonds, vice            
 president of PNC Bank has served as a pillar      
 of the MCI program by providing on going          
 support of its efforts.                           
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of                
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our              
 deliberations to thank our honoree and we         
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread  
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes      
 of these proceedings and to prepare a             
 commemorative copy to the end that it may         
 be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012      
 at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held        
 at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                     
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:       
 HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward         
            Resolution No. 53                      
            Laurie Peterson                        
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor            
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a            
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-       
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and          
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                     
       WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to           
 provide training, capacity building and           
 technical assistance to minority contractors      
 in the field of construction; and                 
      WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the           
 most comprehensive plan room in the State         
 of Missouri through a strategic partnership       
 with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which            
 allows minority and women owned companies         
 to review and bid on construction projects;       
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, over MCI continues to               
 engage its clients by hosting on going            
 "contractor briefing sessions"; and               
      WHEREAS, a combination of over 125           
 minority and women owned construction             
 companies have worked with MCI director           
 Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"            
 technical assistance; and                         
       WHEREAS, the success of the MCI             
 program has also been due greatly to those        
 individuals, companies and agencies who have      
 given selflessly in support of growing more       
 successful minority and women owned               
 construction companies and                        
      WHEREAS, Laurie Peterson, vice               
 president of PNC Bank has served as a pillar      
 of the MCI program by providing on going          
 support of its efforts.                           
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of              
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our            
 deliberations to thank our honoree and we       
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012    
 at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held      
 at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                   
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward      
            Resolution No. 54                    
             Monica Campbell                     
       WHEREAS, the Minority Contractor          
 Initiative (MCI) was founded through a          
 partnership between the Vashon/Jeff-Vander-     
 Lou Initiative and Community Renewal and        
 Development, Inc in 2010; and                   
       WHEREAS, the mission of MCI is to         
 provide training, capacity building and         
 technical assistance to minority contractors    
 in the field of construction; and               
      WHEREAS, MCI also now operates the         
 most comprehensive plan room in the State       
 of Missouri through a strategic partnership     
 with Cross Rhodes Reprographics, which          
 allows minority and women owned companies       
 to review and bid on construction projects;     
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, over MCI continues to             
 engage its clients by hosting on going          
 "contractor briefing sessions"; and             
      WHEREAS, a combination of over 125         
 minority and women owned construction           
 companies have worked with MCI director         
 Mr. Kem Mosley to receive "one on one"          
 technical assistance; and                       
       WHEREAS, the success of the MCI           
 program has also been due greatly to those      
 individuals, companies and agencies who have    
 given selflessly in support of growing more     
 successful minority and women owned             
 construction companies and                      
      WHEREAS, Monica Campbell, vice             
 president of PNC Bank has served as a pillar    
 of the MCI program by providing on going        
 support of its efforts.                         
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the St. Louis Board of              
 Aldermen that we hereby pause in our            
 deliberations to thank our honoree and we       
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
be presented to our honoree on June 26, 2012     
at the 2nd annual MCI awards luncheon held       
at Sweetie Pie's Upper Crust.                    
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward       
           Resolution No. 55                     
    Rev. Dr. F. Delano R. Benson                 
     WHEREAS, we have been apprised that         
the Antioch Baptist Church will celebrate        
pastor, Rev. Dr. F. Delano R. Benson's 30th      
year in Ministry on June 22-24, 2012.; and       
     WHEREAS, Pastor Benson received his         
Bachelor of Science in Animal Science from       
the University of Missouri-Columbia in 1987,     
his Master of Divinity Degree from Eden          
Theological Seminary-Webster Grove in 1993       
and his Doctor of Ministry Degree from the       
Samuel DeWitt Proctor School of Theology-        
Virginia Union University of Richmond in         
2006; and                                        
     WHEREAS, he announced his call to           
ministry in 1982 in Columbia, Missouri at        
Second Baptist Church. He was licensed in        
1982 and ordained in 1986 at his home church,    
Travelers Rest Baptist Church in Spartanburg,    
South Carolina; and                              
     WHEREAS, during his tenure in               
ministry he has served as pastor to Mount        
Vernon Baptist Church-Holt Summit,               
Missouri 1986-1993; Pleasant Green               
Missionary Baptist Church-Kansas City,           
Missouri 2000-2008 and currently serves at       
the Antioch Baptist-St. Louis, Missouri since    
2008; and                                        
      WHEREAS, in addition, Pastor Benson        
has been serving in the United States Armed      
Forces for 30 years; for the last 19 years he    
has served in the United Stated Navy Reserves    
as a Chaplain (Lieutenant Commander). He is      
also the Vice President of Antioch in the Ville  
CDA (non-profit organization).                   
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
deliberations to recognize Rev. Dr. F. Delano    
R. Benson and we wish him continued              
success, achievement and accomplishment and      
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to     
spread a copy of this Resolution across the      
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a    
commemorative copy to the end that it may        
be presented to our honoree at a time and        
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.         
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward      
            Resolution No. 56                       
         Reverend Leo J. Spezia                     
       WHEREAS, Reverend Leo J. Spezia              
 was born in St. Louis, Missouri in 1950. His       
 parents lived on "The Hill", which was and is      
 the Italian neighborhood. From an early age        
 he knew that he wanted to be in position to        
 help or serve people. This he has managed to       
 do in several capacities and for numerous          
 organizations; and                                 
      WHEREAS, in the early 1980's Father           
 Leo was assigned to the St. Francis DeSales        
 Parish in south St. Louis. The area around the     
 parish was in transition and Father Leo            
 recognized that the area could be stabilized.      
 Working with members of his parish and other       
 community leaders, Father Leo was                  
 instrumental in establishing the DeSales           
 Community Housing Corporation for the              
 neighborhood. This corporation would buy           
 problem properties and rehab them and sell         
 them to people that would help revitalize the      
 area. Twenty years later, this housing             
 corporation is still active; and                   
       WHEREAS, currently Father Leo is             
 assigned to St. Mary Magdalen Parish in St.        
 Louis. Ever the activist, he is a board member     
 of the Gravois Business Association. In this       
 capacity he helped to invigorate the board.        
 The board was able to pass a controversial         
 redevelopment plan, which should stabilize         
 the business district. When this plan was          
 presented to the business community, Father        
 Leo served as facilitator and was neutral while    
 everyone discussed their concerns with this        
 plan. He is currently serving as President;        
 and                                                
      WHEREAS, Cardinal John Joseph                 
 Carberry assigned Father Leo as Director of        
 the Office of Family Ministry/Family Life          
 Services for the Archdiocese of St. Louis. He      
 served in this capacity from 1979 to 1992.         
 He developed programs for the numerous             
 personal problems that confront families and       
 organized support groups; and                      
       WHEREAS, in 1991 he organized the            
 chaplaincy department for the FBI. He              
 currently serves as the chaplain for the St.       
 Louis Office and also out of Washington D.         
 C. Former FBI Director Louis Freeh,                
 provided Father Leo with an office down the        
 hall from his own office. Father Leo began         
 the chaplaincy department for the Missouri         
 State Highway Patrol in 1997. He currently         
 serves as the main chaplain for them. He           
 serves both the State in general, out of the       
 state capital in Jefferson City, and in St. Louis  
 as troop chaplain for Troop C; and                 
      WHEREAS, Father Leo has made many             
 contributions to the Bevo Area Business            
 Community, the Bosnian Chamber of                   
 Commerce and the South Kingshighway                 
 Business Association.                               
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED BY the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
 deliberations to thank and recognize Reverend       
 Leo J. Spezia for his many years of service         
 and commitment to the citizens of the City          
 of St. Louis and we further direct the Clerk of     
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution      
 across the minutes of these proceedings and         
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end          
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a        
 time and place deemed appropriate by the            
 Sponsor.                                            
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:         
 Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward         
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
 Honorable Charles Quincy Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward   
 Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward         
 Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward     
 Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward          
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard      
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward     
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward        
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward         
 Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward          
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward       
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward      
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward         
             Resolution No. 57                       
   U.S. Deputy Marshal John Perry                    
       WHEREAS, John Perry was born on               
 May 21, 1962 in Glen Ellyn, Illinois, where         
 he graduated from Glenbard West High School;        
 and                                                 
      WHEREAS, Deputy Perry earned a                 
 bachelor's degree in geology in 1984 from the       
 Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville;       
 and                                                 
     WHEREAS, prior to becoming a                    
 Marshal, Deputy Perry worked in Madison             
 County Probation for 16 years; and                  
      WHEREAS, he graduated from the U.S.            
 Marshal's Academy in 2001 and worked for            
 10 years prior to his death, first in Washington,   
 D.C. and then, in July 2005, he began his           
 service in St. Louis; and                           
       WHEREAS, while in Washington, D.C.,           
 he volunteered at the call center for America's     
 Most Wanted. Deputy Perry served as a team          
 leader on the fugitive task force and as a          
 firearms instructor for the U.S. Marshals of        
 the Eastern District of Missouri; and               
      WHEREAS, he was well known for his             
 sense of humor, for his role as a mentor to         
other Marshals and for his ability to diffuse         
tense situations; and                                 
      WHEREAS, Deputy Perry lost his life             
in the line of duty on March 8, 2011 and, true        
to his generous spirit, had registered as an          
organ donor. Deputy Perry was able to save            
the lives of 5 people by the donation of his          
heart, lungs, liver, pancreas and kidneys, as         
well as skin and bone tissue. The skin and            
bone grafts may help as many as 100 people.           
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                              
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
deliberations to recognize and honor the many         
contributions of U.S. Deputy Marshal John             
Perry to the St. Louis community and we               
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread      
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes          
of these proceedings and to prepare a                 
commemorative copy to the end that it may             
be presented to our honoree at a time and             
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:           
Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard      
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1st Ward      
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward          
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
Honorable Tammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5th Ward         
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward           
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward         
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward         
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward           
Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward       
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward            
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard        
Honorable Carol J. Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward        
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward         
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward             
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward            
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward          
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward             
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward         
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward          
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward           
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward            
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward               
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward         
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward           
            Resolution No. 59                         
   "I'M A SURVIVOR" ALL WHITE                         
  BENEFIT & PARTY FOR CANCER                          
     WHEREAS, Cancer continues to be a                
plague on our community and resources &               
education continue to be badly needed; and            
      WHEREAS, On June 10, 2012, Orlando              
 Watson, CEO of Rochhouse Entertainment,               
 will host the 2nd Annual I'm A Survivor All           
 White Benefit & Party at the St. Louis Science        
 Center's Planetarium; and                             
      WHEREAS, Orlando Watson, a cancer                
 survivor, has a deep commitment to the St.            
 Louis Metropolitan area, youth awareness,             
 and the fight against cancer; and                     
       WHEREAS, the first I'm A Survivor               
 cancer benefit was a huge success, and this           
 2nd Annual has gained even more support for           
 the fight against cancer; and                         
      WHEREAS, the proceeds from the                   
 benefit go to support the American Cancer             
 Society; and                                          
      WHEREAS, the event focuses on                    
 celebrating survivors of disease and traumatic        
 experiences, as well as educating the                 
 community on ways they can reduce the                 
 chances of cancer & where to get support;             
 and                                                   
       WHEREAS, this year's event will                 
 include a New York style fashion show, a              
 special performance by Grammy nominated               
 R&B artist Carl Thomas, and incredible                
 cuisine from some of St. Louis' top restaurants;      
 and                                                   
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our           
 deliberations to recognize and honor Orlando          
 Watson and the other organizers of the I'm A          
 Survivor cancer benefit and we thank them             
 for their tireless efforts to educate and support     
 the citizens of this community and we direct          
 the Clerk of this Board to prepare a                  
 commemorative copy of this Resolution to              
 the end that it may be presented to our               
 honorees at a time and place deemed                   
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                           
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:           
 Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward           
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
      Unanimous consent having been                    
 obtained Resolutions No. 37 through 57 and            
 No. 59 stood considered.                              
      Mr. Schmid moved that Resolution No.             
 57 be passed en banc.                                 
       Seconded by Mr. Vollmer.                        
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
       President Reed moved that Resolutions           
 No. 37 through 57 and No. 59 be adopted, at           
 this meeting of the Board.                            
       Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                           
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.              
           FIRST READING OF                       
             RESOLUTIONS                          
      President Reed introduced Resolution        
 No. 58 and the Clerk was instructed to read      
 same.                                            
            Resolution No. 58                     
      WHEREAS, Fox Park is in need of             
 extensive rehabilitation; and                    
       WHEREAS, this Board of Aldermen            
 deems it necessary to take advantage of every    
 opportunity to improve the park and to           
 implement the Fox Park Master Plan for the       
 benefit of the many citizens throughout the      
 city and metropolitan area who use the park      
 on a regular basis; and                          
       WHEREAS, grant applications must           
 include a prescribed resolution adopted by       
 the Board of Alderman and be postmarked no       
 later than June 11, 2012; and                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis, as follows:               
 1.   That a project application be prepared      
      and submitted to the Department of          
      Natural Resources, Division of State        
      Park's Grants Management Section for        
      the Land and Water Conservation Fund        
      (LWCF) Grant Round Fiscal Year 2012.        
 2.   The Mayor, the Comptroller and the          
      Director of the Department of Parks,        
      Recreation and Forestry, be authorized,     
      and directed to sign and execute the        
      necessary documents for forwarding the      
      project proposal application for a grant-   
      in-aid under the LWCF. These persons        
      are also hereby authorized to sign the      
      project agreement, subsequent               
      amendments and other necessary              
      documents between the City of St. Louis     
      and the State of Missouri.                  
 3.   If a grant is awarded, the City of St. Louis
      accepts all responsibilities under the      
      LWCF regulations. This includes, but is     
      not limited to, project site to be protected
      by the LWCF rules and regulations in        
      perpetuity, maintenance of the park for     
      public outdoor recreation purposes,         
      compliance with the provisions of Title     
      VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,         
      underground wiring of all telephone and     
      electrical wires under 15 KV within the     
      park both under this project and in the     
      future, provisions of facilities which are  
      accessible to and usable by people with     
      special needs.                              
 Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:      
 Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard 
     Ms. Triplett moved that Resolution No.     
58 be adopted by unanimous consent at this      
meeting of the Board.                           
     Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.                   
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
       SECOND READING OF                        
          RESOLUTIONS                           
     None.                                      
      MISCELLANEOUS AND                         
      UNFINISHED BUSINESS                       
     None.                                      
          ANNOUNCEMENTS                         
     None.                                      
        EXCUSED ALDERMEN                        
     Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the            
following aldermen due to their necessary       
absence: Ms. Flowers and Mr. Moore.             
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                     
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
             ADJOURNMENT                        
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under        
rules to return June 15, 2012.                  
     Seconded by Mr. Boyd.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
     Respectfully submitted,                    
     David W. Sweeney                           
     Clerk, Board of Aldermen                   
  BOARD OF                                      
PUBLIC SERVICE                                  
        REGULAR MEETING                         
     St. Louis, MO - June 12, 2012              
     Board met at 1:45 P.M.                     
     Present: Directors Waelterman, Siedhoff,   
Roth and President Bradley.                     
     Absent: Directors Skouby, Bess and         
Rice-Walker (excused).                          
      Requests of the Directors of Public       
Utilities, Parks, Recreation and Forestry and   
Health and Hospitals to be excused from the     
Regular Meeting of June 12, 2012 was read       
and leaves of absence granted.                  
     Minutes of the Regular Meeting of June     
5, 2012 were unanimously approved.              
      Communications, reports, recommenda-      
tions and documents were submitted by Board     
Members and action thereon taken as follows:    
              PRESIDENT                         
     Detailed plans and specifications for the  
 following work approved and the Board set        
 date of July 17, 2012 for opening bids for       
 work and Secretary instructed to insert proper   
 advertisement therefore:                         
      Letting No. 8509 - Improvements to the      
 Plaza at 1520 Market Street.                     
       The apparent low bidder Strong Tower       
 Construction d/b/a Koch Corporation, 1131        
 Logan, Louisville, KY 40204 for Letting No.      
 8505 - Residential Sound Insulation Program,     
 Part 58, Lambert St. Louis International         
 Airport(R) bid ordered withdrawn per the         
 applicant request due to miscalculation with     
 their bid and preliminary approval ordered       
 awarded to the next lowest bidder.               
       Preliminary approval given and 10 days     
 granted in which to sign same:                   
       Letting No. 8505 - Residential Sound       
 Insulation Program, Part 58, Lambert- St. Louis  
 International Airport(R), Amount $619,800.00     
      Temporary Construction Easement/            
 Continuing        Sidewalk-Improvement           
 Maintenance Agreement approved and               
 President authorized to sign same.               
      Emergency Work Orders issued for May        
 2012 by the Department of the President and      
 Facilities Management Division, Board of         
 Public Service for Emergency Work repairs        
 requiring prompt attention ordered approved.     
        DIRECTORS OF                              
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
       3 Permits ordered approved, subject to     
 certain conditions as follows: 118414, Union     
 Electric d/b/a AmerenUE, construct new           
 multiple conduit duct bank within Tucker         
 (between St. Charles and Washington) and         
 Washington (between Tucker and 11 th),           
 118443, Charter Communications, starting at      
 a pole on northeast side of 2600 So. 10th        
 Street, bore under Sidney heading north 94' to   
 left of customers trash dumpster at Gene         
 Slay's Boys Club baseball field at 900 Sidney    
 and, 118445, Feraro's Pizza, encroach with       
 1" footing at 925-27 Geyer (rear).               
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                          
   UTILITIES, STREETS, PARKS,                     
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                        
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                       
       Application No. 118460, Fair Saint         
 Louis Foundation, declare area of Leonore K.     
 Sullivan as a festival zone from 6:00 a.m. July  
 3, 2012 to 12:00 p.m. July 8, 2012 ordered       
 approved, subject to certain conditions.         
      Application No. 118461, Fair Saint          
 Louis Foundation, declare the area of Poelker    
 and Kauffman Parks as a festival zone July       
 13, 14, 20, and 21, 2012 ordered filed,          
 duplicate application.                         
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
       2 Permits ordered approved, subject to   
 certain conditions as follows: 118488,         
 Interstate Blood Bank Inc., consolidate land   
 at 5121 Delmar in C.B. 4844 and, 118483,       
 J.T. Wohlert Co LLC, resubdivide land          
 surrounding Union Pacific Railroad and         
 Kingshighway in C.B. 4095.                     
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Draft of the following ordinance          
 approved, and the Secretary instructed to      
 forward same to the Board of Aldermen with     
 recommendation that it be passed:              
      "An Ordinance to vacate an irregular      
 portion of Compton Avenue adjacent to City     
 Block 2161 beginning at Chouteau Avenue and    
 extending southwardly 175.56 to a point."      
      5 Permits ordered approved, subject to    
 certain conditions: 118448, Brandonview        
 LLC, encroach with canvas canopy at 400        
 Washington, 118484, Park Central               
 Development, encroach with 10 bicycle racks    
 on Lindell, No. Taylor, Forest Park, So.       
 Kingshighway and No. Sarah, 118486,            
 Blondies Coffee and Wine Bar LLC, encroach     
 with sidewalk cafe at 1301 Washington (7       
 tables and 28 chairs) serving liquor and,      
 118485, Rosalita's Cantina LLC, encroach       
 with sidewalk cafe at 1229 Washington (6       
 tables and 20 chairs) serving liquor and,      
 Application No. 118487, Mizu Sushi, amend      
 sidewalk cafe encroachment to allow (8 tables  
 and 24 chairs) serving liquor.                 
       Application No. 118450, Trattoria        
 Marcella, amend to encroach with sidewalk      
 cafe at 3600-02 Watson ordered filed, there is 
 no change to the previous permit.              
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                    
       7 Conditional Use Permits ordered        
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,  
 per Board Order No. 766:118491, 1520           
 Washington, cleaning business (office use      
 only) home occupancy wavier, 118492, 8220      
 Vulcan, cleaning company (office use only)     
 home occupancy wavier, 118493, 3973            
 Schiller, construction business (office use    
 only) home occupancy wavier, 118494, 5501      
 Alaska, construction and rehab business (office
 use only) home occupancy wavier, 118495,       
 5102-04 Natural Bridge, tattoo parlor, 118496, 
 40 No. Kingshighway, home health care office,  
 suite 6 and118497, 2151 59th Street, cat       
 shelter with office space.                     
      Agenda Items for June 12, 2012 ordered    
 approved.                                      
      The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,      
June 19, 2012.                                  
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.       
                 President                      
ATTEST:                                         
                 Cherise D. Thomas              
                 Secretary                      
      CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
   BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                      
      REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                
for     Professional        Architectural,      
Engineering, and Field Survey Services          
for Comfort Station Upgrades Part I -           
Forest Park, St. Louis, MO. Statements of       
Qualifications due by 5:00 P.M., CT, June       
22, 2012 at Board of Public Service, 1200       
Market, Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO       
63103. RFQ may be obtained from website         
www.stl-bps.org, under Contracts & Bids,        
Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at   
314-589-6214. 25% MBE and 5% WBE                
participation goals.                            
      CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
   BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                      
     REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                 
for Professional Engineering and Field          
Survey Services for the Removal and             
Reconstruction of the Upper Muny Parking        
Lot - Forest Park, St. Louis, MO.               
Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00 P.M.,  
CT, June 26, 2012 at Board of Public Service,   
1200 Market, Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis,     
MO 63103. RFQ may be obtained from              
website www.stl-bps.org, under Contracts &      
Bids, Professional Services, or call Bette      
Behan at 314-589-6214. 25% MBE and 5%           
WBE participation goals.                        
 PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                    
     A public hearing will be held by the       
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on             
Wednesday, June 27, 2012 in Room 208 City       
Hall to consider the following:                 
     APPEAL #10010 - Appeal filed by            
Fairground Child Development Center, from       
the determination of the Board of Public        
Service in the denial of an occupancy permit    
with conditions authorizing the Appellant to    
amend Condition #1 to change the number of      
children from 35 to 45 of the previously        
granted occupancy permit at 3773 Kossuth.       
WARD 3 #AO496668 -12 ZONE: "G" -                
Local Commercial & Office District              
BPS#118360                                      
     APPEAL #10011 - Appeal filed by            
International Institute Home Childcare          
 Business Program from the determination of        
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an     
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant        
 to operate a training center and daycare of 10    
 kids (2 infants, 8 kids 2 1/2 - 12 years of age,  
 Monday through Friday, 6:00 a.m. to 6 p.m.)       
 at 4166 Osceola. WARD 14 #AO498573-12             
 ZONE: "A" - Single Family Dwelling                
 District                                          
      APPEAL #10012 - Appeal filed by A &          
 J Automotive from the determination of the        
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an         
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant        
 to operate a carwash and detailing business       
 (7900 side) and an auto repair shop with body     
 work (7916 side) at 7900-16 N. Broadway.          
 WARD 2 #AO498018-12 ZONE: "G" -                   
 Local Commercial & Office District                
      APPEAL #10013- Appeal filed by               
 Sassafra's Cafe, from the determination of the    
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an         
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant        
 to operate a full drink restaurant and catering   
 business with outside patio, 2nd floor-rear, at   
 4344 Shaw. WARD 8 #AO498595-12 ZONE:              
 "B" - Two Family Dwelling District                
       APPEAL #10014- Appeal filed by              
 Schlafly Tap Room from the determination of       
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to      
 erect two non-illuminated wall signs, per plans,  
 at 2100 Locust. WARD 6 #AB498344-12               
 ZONE: "I" - Central Business District             
      In accordance with the provisions of         
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
     By authority of the Board of                  
 Adjustment.                                       
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                      
       There will not be a public hearing held     
 by the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on        
 Wednesday, July 4, 2012 in Room 208 City          
 Hall.                                             
      In accordance with the provisions of         
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.         
     By authority of the Board of                  
 Adjustment.                                       
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                    
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held       
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on             
 Thursday, June 28, 2012 on the following          
 conditional uses:                                 
     5327 Nottingham - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Broke & Hungry Records (Record       
 Label/Office Use Only) "A"- Single Family     
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 14                 
      8501 Mora Lane - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - Solid Rock Janitorial Service        
 (Janitorial/Office Use Only) "A" Single       
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 2           
     6640 Garner - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - MAR Lawn Landscape, LLC (Lawn/              
 Landscape/Office Use Only) "A" - Single       
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 24          
      5407 Alabama - Home Occupancy            
 Waiver - A+ Window Cleaning, LLC (Window      
 Cleaning Service/Office Use Only) "A" Single  
 Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 25          
      4540 Dryden - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - Kelvin Murphy Photography            
 (Photography/Office Use Only) "A" Single      
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 21          
      3540 Juniata - Home Occupancy            
 Waiver - Eagle-Lion Bicycle, LLC (Bike Based  
 Delivery/Marketing/Office Use Only) " B "     
 Two Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 8       
      14 Thornby - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Jubabee Community Development, Inc.         
 (General Contracting/Consulting/Office Use    
 Only) "A" Single Family Dwelling District.    
 Db Ward 26                                    
      2718-22 Gravois - #AO-498302-12-         
 City Bistro (Full Drink Restaurant/Rear Patio)
 "F"- Neighborhood Commercial District.        
 Te Ward 9                                     
      5975 Natural Br. - #AO-498618-12 -       
 This & That Resale (Resale Shop/Used          
 Furniture & Appliances) "F" Neighborhood      
 Commercial District. Te Ward 22               
      7041 Gravois - #AO-498601-12-            
 Valentina's Market, LLC (Open Air Market/     
 Sunday-Saturday/7am to 8pm/Parking Lot        
 Only/6-1-12 to 11-30-12) "F" Neighborhood     
 Commercial District. Te Ward 12               
      5241 Winona - #AB-498558-12 - Ase        
 Painting & Contracting (Construct Garage &    
 Remove Existing Garage per plans for single   
 family) "A" Single Family Dwelling District.  
 Bl Ward 23                                    
      1170-76 N Kingshighway - #AB-            
 498591-12 - Land of Oz Academy (Construct     
 Room Addition per plans for Daycare) "F"      
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward     
 18                                            
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held   
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on            
Thursday, July 5, 2012 on the following          
conditional uses:                                
    5037 Louisiana - Home Occupancy              
Waiver - Casa Blanca Housekeeping Services       
(Housekeeping/Office Use Only) "B"- Two          
Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 25             
     10265 Lookaway Dr. - Home                   
Occupancy Waiver - Jerry Butler                  
Construction (Contracting Business/Office        
Use Only) "A" Single Family Dwelling             
District. Te Ward 2                              
     3931 Cleveland - Home Occupancy             
Waiver - Wynne Photography (Weddings &           
Portraits/Office Use Only) "B" Two Family        
Dwelling District. Db Ward 8                     
     4420 S. Spring Ave. - Home Occupancy        
Waiver - Kristen Prysmiki (Freelance Editorial   
Services/Office Use Only) "A" Single Family      
Dwelling District. Db Ward 25                    
     6101 Delmar - #AO-496885-12-Gokul           
Indian Restaurant (Sit down/Carryout             
Restaurant/Full Drink Bar w/sidewalk seating)    
"F"- Neighborhood Commercial District.           
Te Ward 28                                       
     5280 Fyler - #AO-498287-12-St. Louis        
Muttropolitan (Dog Daycare/Grooming/             
Boarding) "F" Neighborhood Commercial            
District. Te Ward 10                             
     7529 Michigan - #AO-498750-12-              
Schoemehl Southside Bar & Grill (Full Drink      
Bar/Restaurant/Rear Patio) "F" Neighborhood      
Commercial District. Te Ward 11                  
     4903 Arlington - #AB-498194-12-             
Prospect Hill Baptist Church (Construct          
Parking Lot per plans for Church) "A" Single     
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 27             
INVITATIONTO BID                                 
 Board of Police Commissioners                   
 Metropolitan Police Department                  
    City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
 640-001599 Vehicle - Washing Services           
      Sealed bids of the above will be received  
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
Department, Office of the Director of            
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
local time, Friday, June 22, 2012 WHEN will      
be opened publicly and announced. Official       
bid forms on which bids must be submitted        
may be obtained from the Office of the           
Director of Purchasing by prospective bidders    
upon request in person or by telephone during    
regular business hours.                          
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.            
       The Board of Police Commissioners            
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
 reserves the right to consider criteria other      
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
 Among other factors, the Board will consider       
 the location of the business, minority interest    
 in the business, prior performance and the bid     
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
 associated Regulations could apply to the          
 service for which bids are being sought herein.    
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                       
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,     
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
      Bidders are also advised that the State       
 of Missouri requires workers on all public         
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
 the prevailing rate for any work done under        
 the contract by the contractor or by any           
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
 Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid      
 please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.      
 Email must include vendor's company                
 name, address, and description of bid.             
      Purchasing Division                         
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                         
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      The Housing, Urban Development and          
 Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of       
 Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on June      
 27, 2012 at 10:00 A.M. in the Kennedy Room       
 (208) in City Hall:                              
          BOARD BILL NO. 71                       
            Introduced By                         
       Alderman Alfred Wessels                    
      An Ordinance recommended by the             
 Planning Commission repealing a part of          
 Section Five of Ordinance 62588 relating to      
 signs at carry-out restaurants and motor fuel    
 pumping stations, designated as Section          
 26.40.026(B)(1)(b)            and     Section    
 26.40.027(B)(2), respectively, in the Revised    
 Code of the City of St. Louis; and repealing     
 Ordinance 68849, which is codified as Section    
 26.68 of the Revised Code of the City of St.     
 Louis and designated as Comprehensive Sign       
 Control Regulations, and enacting a new          
 Ordinance on the same subject matters;           
 containing a substitution clause, severability   
 clause, savings clause and an emergency clause.  
         BOARD BILL NO. 79                        
           Introduced By                          
    Alderman Joseph Roddy and                     
      Alderman Alfred Wessels                     
       An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission pertaining to form-based     
 districts, creating a new zoning overlay district
 in the Zoning Code, Chapter 26.82, to be         
 designated as Form-Based Districts, providing    
 a purpose, definitions, criteria for formation,  
 minimum requirements, optional regulatory        
 subjects, procedures for approval, procedures    
 for amending and administering districts;        
 amending Section Three of Ordinance 69084,       
 relating to fees for zoning services provided    
 by the Zoning Section of the Building Division,  
 by adding a fee of five hundred dollars ($500)   
 for the application to establish a form-based    
 district; and containing a severability clause   
 and an emergency clause.                         
      Any person wishing to speak for or          
 against the above cited board bills should be    
 present.                                         
      Sincerely,                                  
      Donna A. Booker                             
      Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen          
  REQUEST FOR                                    
   PROPOSAL                                      
 Board of Police Commissioners                   
 Metropolitan Police Department                  
    City of St. Louis, Missouri                  
       BID # 140-00165 -                         
ACTUARIAL SERVICES - WORKERS'                    
       COMPENSATION                              
        BID # 140-00166 -                        
  ACTUARIAL SERVICES - GASB 45                   
      Sealed bids of the above will be received  
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police             
Department, Office of the Director of            
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,         
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.      
local time, Friday, June 29, 2012, when they     
will be opened publicly and announced.           
     Request for Proposal documents may          
be obtained from the Office of the Director of   
Purchasing by prospective bidders upon           
request in person or by telephone during         
regular business hours.                          
      Contractor shall not discriminate in       
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,      
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against     
any employee or applicant for employment         
because of race, creed, color, sex or national   
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient        
cause to reject any bid or terminate the         
contract, and the Board of Police                
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan      
Police Department shall be entitled to recover   
any damages resulting from termination.          
      The Board of Police Commissioners          
reserves the right to waive any formalities and  
to reject any and all bids. The Board also       
reserves the right to consider criteria other    
than the low bid in the award of a contract.     
Among other factors, the Board will consider     
the location of the business, minority interest  
in the business, prior performance and the bid   
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.    
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and           
associated Regulations could apply to the        
service for which bids are being sought herein.  
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific    
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform    
work pursuant to a contract executed between     
the successful bidder and the City must be       
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage     
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term  
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,       
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.  
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage         
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                       
 Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations are        
 available upon request from Carol Shepard, at      
 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at                 
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
      Bidders are also advised that the State       
 of Missouri requires workers on all public         
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
 the prevailing rate for any work done under        
 the contract by the contractor or by any           
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
      CAROL SHEPARD                                 
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                        
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                           
   REQUEST FOR                                      
    PROPOSAL                                        
  Board of Police Commissioners                     
  Metropolitan Police Department                    
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                    
          RFP-VOICE -                               
 REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FOR VOIP                      
             - Rebid                                
       Sealed bids of the above will be received    
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
 Department, Office of the Director of              
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
 local time, Friday, July 13, 2012, when they       
 will be opened publicly and announced.             
      Request for Proposal documents may            
 be obtained from the Office of the Director of     
 Purchasing by prospective bidders upon             
 request in person or by telephone during           
 regular business hours.                            
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.          
 The Board of Police Commissioners reserves       
 the right to waive any formalities and to reject 
 any and all bids. The Board also reserves the    
 right to consider criteria other than the low    
 bid in the award of a contract. Among other      
 factors, the Board will consider the location    
 of the business, minority interest in the        
 business, prior performance and the bid          
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.    
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.            
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.    
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and           
 associated Regulations could apply to the        
 service for which bids are being sought herein.  
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific    
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform    
 work pursuant to a contract executed between     
 the successful bidder and the City must be       
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage     
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term  
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,       
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.  
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage         
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration        
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration 
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with     
 the contract provisions related to the Living    
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of      
 the contract and the imposition of additional    
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and        
 Regulations.                                     
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard,   
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at            
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.           
      Bidders are also advised that the State     
 of Missouri requires workers on all public       
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.      
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the     
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or      
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than  
 the prevailing rate for any work done under      
 the contract by the contractor or by any         
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).          
      CAROL SHEPARD                               
      DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING                      
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                         
   REQUEST FOR                                    
    PROPOSALS                                     
         City of St. Louis                        
     City Counselor's Office                      
      The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified  
 organizations to submit sealed proposals for     
 Legal Research Services for the City             
Counselor's Office.                               
     The Request for Proposals ("RFP") may        
be obtained at the City Counselor's Office,       
Room 314 City Hall, 1200 Market Street, St.       
Louis, MO 63103 commencing Wednesday,             
June 6, 2012. The RFP is also available online    
at: http://stlouis-mo.gov/government/             
procurement.cfm. The phone number for the         
City Counselor's Office is (314) 622-3361.        
     Sealed proposals will be received until      
4:30 P.M. on Friday, June 29, 2012, at the        
City Counselor's Office, Room 314, City Hall,     
1200 Market Street, St. Louis, MO 63103.          
     The City of St. Louis is an Equal            
Opportunity Employer, and Respondents             
shall comply with the Mayor's Executive           
Order #28, as amended.                            
      The City of St. Louis reserves the right    
to accept or reject any or all responses to this  
RFP and/or to cancel this RFP in part or in its   
entirety.                                         
ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE                   
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN                   
          NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS                     
           LIVING WAGE RATES                      
          EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2012                 
In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the       
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance                   
("Ordinance") and the Regulations associated      
therewith, the City Compliance Official for       
the City of St. Louis has determined that the     
following living wage rates are now in effect     
for employees of covered contracts:               
     1)   Where health benefits as defined in     
          the Ordinance are provided to the       
          employee, the living wage rate is       
          $11.93 per hour (130% of the federal    
          poverty level income guideline for a    
          family of three); and                   
     2)   Where health benefits as defined in     
          the Ordinance are not provided to       
          the employee, the living wage rate is   
          $15.52 per hour (130% of the federal    
          poverty level income guideline for a    
          family of three, plus fringe benefit    
          rates as defined in the Ordinance).     
     3)   Wages required under Chapter 6.20       
          of the Revised Code of the City of      
          St. Louis: $3.59 per hour.              
These rates are based upon federal poverty        
level income guidelines as defined in the         
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of     
April 1, 2012. These rates will be further        
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty    
 level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.     
 Department of Health and Human Services or         
 pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code       
 of the City of St. Louis.                          
 The Ordinance applies to employers who are         
 covered by the Ordinance as defined in the         
 Ordinance, where the contract or grant is          
 entered into or renewed after the effective date   
 of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.       
 A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online       
 at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or              
 obtained from:                                     
          City Compliance Official                  
  Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)        
    Certification and Compliance Office             
               P.O. Box 10212                       
            St. Louis, Mo 63145                     
               C314) 426-8111                       
 Dated: February 17, 2012                           
 DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  PERSONNEL                                         
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                         
      The City of St. Louis, Department of          
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,           
 announces competitive Civil Service                
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
 Service.                                           
       The last date for filing an application for  
 the following examination is JUNE 29, 2012.        
  CUSTOMER SERVICE MANAGER                          
             Prom./O.C. 1912                        
 $54,860 to $81,744 (Annual Salary Range)           
      Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,            
 Social Security, and Employee Retirement           
 System Benefits privileges are provided in         
 addition to salary.                                
       Application forms and further                
 information concerning duties of positions,        
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative   
 weights of examination components, and             
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the   
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114        
 Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO              
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the        
 Internet. Visit the City web site at               
 http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.     
                  Richard R. Frank,                 
                  Director                          
 June 13, 2012                                      
 NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                         
      CITY ORDINANCE requires that any         
 individual or company who performs work       
 within the City limits must obtain a Business 
 License. This would also apply to businesses  
 who employ sales or delivery personnel to     
 come into the City. Contracts requiring work  
 to be performed in the City will NOT be       
 awarded to unlicensed businesses.             
 ST. LOUIS LIVING                              
 WAGE ORDINANCE                                
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                    
 Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that  
 the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597    
 and associated Regulations apply to the       
 service [concession] [lease] [City Financial  
 Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are  
 being sought herein. This Ordinance requires  
 that, unless specific exemptions apply, all   
 individuals who perform work pursuant to a    
 contract executed between the successful      
 [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]    
 must be paid a minimum of the applicable      
 Living Wage rates set forth in the attached   
 Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are   
 adjusted during the term of the contract      
 pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates   
 after such adjustment is made. Each bidder    
 [proponent] must submit the attached "Living  
 Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance            
 Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure 
 to submit this Declaration with the bid       
 [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
 [proposal]. A successful bidder 's            
 [proponent's] failure to comply with contract 
 provisions related to the Living Wage         
 Ordinance may result in termination of the    
 contract and the imposition of additional     
 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and   
 Regulations.                                  
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations  
 are available upon request from La Queta      
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be  
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living       
 wage.                                         
    SUPPLY                                     
 COMMISSIONER                                  
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,            
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,      
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,           
 JUNE 19, 2012 - INFORMAL and                  
 ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the       
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00  
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the  
dates specified.                                 
    TUESDAY, JUNE 26, 2012                       
 PAINT, EXTERIOR LATEX FLAT                      
        - EXTRA WHITE                            
for OPERATION BRIGHTSIDE per Req.                
#11. (BF)                                        
   REFURBISHED BELMONT X-                        
    CALIBUR DENTAL LIGHT                         
for JUVENILE DIVISION per Req. #45. (LC)         
     TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2012                      
   BID PROPOSAL FOR PAINT                        
       & PAINT SUPPLIES                          
for a period of FOUR (4) YEARS from DATE         
OF AWARD. (BF)                                   
        ORAL X-RAY SYSTEM                        
for JUVENILE DIVISION per Req. #46. (LC)         
           LAB EQUIPMENT                         
for BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE per Req.             
#52. (LC)                                        
     Notice to All Suppliers                     
      It is the policy of the City of St. Louis  
that all firms desiring to do business with the  
City of St. Louis must comply with               
employment practices that are in accordance      
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis     
and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated      
there-under to the end that all Contractors      
and suppliers of materials and services will     
offer equal opportunity for employment and       
job advancement to blacks and other minority     
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.       
             Obtaining Bids                      
          To download bids log on to:            
 http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm    
then, search available bids.                     
    You may also contact the Supply              
Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or       
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com             
      Bidders are invited to be present at the   
opening of bids. Bid results may be available    
30 days following the date of bid opening.       
If you desire bid results, please include a      
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.    
          Recycled Products                      
     The City of St. Louis desires to            
purchase recycled products whenever              
possible, especially items containing post       
consumer waste materials. If your company        
can supply recycled products, please provide     
information to this office.                      
            Surplus Property                 
      Notice is hereby given that the City of
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
 during the course of the year. The property 
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the 
 City Journal.                               
      The right to reject any and all bids is
 reserved.                                   
                Freddie L. Dunlap            
                Supply Commissioner          
                (314) 622-4580               
                www.stlouis-mo.gov           
            Surplus Property                 
      Notice is hereby given that the City of
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
 during the course of the year. The property 
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the 
 City Journal.                               
      The right to reject any and all bids is
 reserved.                                   
                Freddie L. Dunlap            
                Supply Commissioner          
                (314) 622-4580               
                www.stlouis-mo.gov           
