      The   City Journal              
          (USPS: 114-540)             
        Published Weekly              
        Under Authority of            
    City Ordinance No. 30050          
       by City of St. Louis           
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
    Periodicals postage paid at       
        St. Louis, Missouri           
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2012-2013                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
     Friday, May 18, 2012.        
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers May 18, 2012.                      
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,   
 Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Triplett,  
 Young, Conway, Ortmann, Villa, Arnowitz,    
 Wessels, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, 
 Davis, French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
 Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President   
 Reed. 26                                    
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
          HONORED GUESTS                     
      None.                                  
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                   
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                   
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the        
 minutes for May 4, 2012.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                 
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      None.                                  
         Office of the Mayor                   
City of St. Louis                              
Room 200 City Hall                             
1200 Market Street                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
(314) 622-3201                                 
May 18, 2012                                   
Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
Room 230 City Hall                             
St. Louis, Missouri 63103                      
Dear Member of the Board:                      
     I have the pleasure to submit the         
following individuals for appointment to the   
Washington Community Improvement               
District:                                      
      The appointment of Mr. Chadwick          
Sneed, who resides at 104 Armour Rd., Kansas   
City, MO 63038 and whose term will expire      
on May 18th, 2016.                             
     The appointment of Mr. David L.           
Johnson, who resides at 4217 N. Hickory Ln.,   
Kansas City, MO 64116 and whose term will      
expire on May 18th, 2016.                      
     The appointment of Mr. Stuart Woody,      
who resides at 2018 NW 59th Ct., Kansas City,  
MO 64151 and whose term will expire on         
may 18th, 1016.                                
     The appointment of Mr. Michael P.         
McRobert, who resides at 5720 NE Wilson        
Blvd., Kansas City, MO 64118 and whose         
term will expire on may 18th, 2016.            
      The appointment of Mr. John W. Alvey,    
who resides at 1943 Larkspur, Liberty, MO      
64068 and whose term will expire on May        
18th, 2016.                                    
     I respectfully request your approval of   
these appointments.                            
     Sincerely                                 
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                           
     Mayor                                     
      Ms. Hubbard moved to approve the         
following individuals for appointment to the   
1201 Washington Community Improvement          
District: Chadwick Sneed, David L. Johnson,    
Stuart Woody, Michael P. McRobert and John     
W. Alvey.                                      
     Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                 
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
City of St. Louis                              
Room 200 City Hall                             
1200 Market Street                             
St. Louis, MO 63103                            
(314) 622-3201                                 
May 18, 2012                                   
Honorable Board of Aldermen                    
Room 230 City Hall                             
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                     
 Dear Member of the Board:                     
      I have the pleasure to submit the        
 following individuals for appointment to the  
 Riverfront Hotel Community Improvement        
 District.                                     
       The appointment of Mr. Michael          
 Towerman, who resides at 1164 Shepard Oaks    
 Dr., 63038 and whose term will expire on May  
 18th, 2016.                                   
      The appointment of Mr. Daniel J. Fox,    
 who resides at 16640 Chesterfield Grove Rd.,  
 Suite 170, 63005 and whose term will expire   
 on May 18th, 2016.                            
       The appointment of Mr. David P.         
 Minton, who resides at 669 W. Polo Dr.,       
 63105 and whose term will expire on May       
 18th, 2016.                                   
       The appointment of Mr. Mark A.          
 Martin, who resides at 137 GlenAllen Dr.,     
 63376 and whose term will expire on may       
 18th, 2016.                                   
     The appointment of Ms. Sharon Walls,      
 who resides at 6305 Wayne Dr., 63052 and      
 whose term will expire on May 18th, 2016.     
      I respectfully request your approval of  
 these appointments.                           
      Sincerely                                
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                          
      Mayor                                    
      Ms. Young moved to approve Board the     
 following individuals for appointment to the  
 Riverfront Hotel Community Improvement        
 District: Michael Towerman, Daniel J. Fox,    
 David P. Minton, Mark A. Martin and Sharon    
 Walls.                                        
      Seconded by Mr. Boyd.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
 City of St. Louis                             
 Room 200 City Hall                            
 1200 Market Street                            
 St. Louis, MO 63103                           
 (314) 622-3201                                
 May 8, 2012                                   
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                   
 Room 230 City Hall                            
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                     
 Dear Board Member:                            
      I have the honor to return to you        
 herewith Board Bills No. 270 (Committee       
 Substitute), 280, 290, 296 and 299 with my    
 approval endorsed thereon. These bills do     
 not have an emergency clause.                 
      Sincerely                                
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                          
      Mayor                                       
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                       
      None.                                       
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                           
       None.                                      
          BOARD BILLS FOR                         
           THIRD READING                          
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
      None.                                       
            RESOLUTIONS                           
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                        
      None.                                       
            FIRST READING                         
            OF BOARD BILLS                        
 Board Members Ortmann and Carter                 
 introduced by request:                           
             Board Bill No. 52                    
      An Ordinance pertaining to sun screening    
 devices applied to the windshield or windows     
 of motor vehicles; and containing a penalty,     
 severability and emergency clause.               
 Board Member Ogilvie introduced by               
 request:                                         
             Board Bill No. 53                    
      An ordinance prohibiting the harassment     
 of pedestrians and bicyclists; containing        
 definitions; prohibited activities; and a penalty
 clause.                                          
  REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF                       
        BOARD BILLS                               
          Convention and Tourism                  
                   None.                          
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions             
                 None.                            
        Health and Human Services                 
                  None.                           
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning              
                None.                             
         Intergovernmental Affairs                
                   None.                          
                  Legislation                     
                    None.                         
        Neighborhood Development                  
                  None.                           
     Parks and Environmental Matters              
                  None.                           
       Personnel and Administration               
                  None.                           
               Public Employees                   
                     None.                        
               Public Safety                      
          Board Bills No. 52 and 53.              
               Public Utilities                   
                   None.                          
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse               
                   None.                          
     Transportation and Commerce                  
                 None.                            
              Ways and Means                      
                  None.                           
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                        
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                         
     Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,      
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following        
report which was read.                            
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
May 18, 2012.                                     
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Streets, Traffic and       
Refuse to whom was referred the following         
Board Bills, report that they have considered     
the same and recommend adoption.                  
            Board Bill No. 18                     
     An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above   
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for       
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in      
LaSalle St. from Compton Ave. to Virginia Ave.    
and Virginia Ave. from Chouteau Ave. to           
LaSalle St. in the City of St. Louis, Missouri,   
as hereinafter described, in accordance with      
Charter authority, and in conformity with         
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and      
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.     
            Board Bill No. 39                     
      An Ordinance, recommended by the            
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis  
(the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a   
public works and improvement project for          
the Kingshighway Boulevard Bridge over the        
Union Pacific Railroad involving the              
reconstruction of the bridge and associated       
roadway improvements on Kingshighway              
Boulevard from Interstate 44 to Vandeventer       
Avenue, and the relocation and improvements       
of Shaw Avenue in the vicinity of                 
Kingshighway Boulevard (the "Kingshighway         
Bridge Reconstruction Over Union Pacific          
Project"); and authorizing and directing the      
City of St. Louis (the "City"), by and through    
its Board of Public Service, to let contracts     
and provide for Property Acquisition and          
Construction of the Kingshighway Bridge           
Reconstruction Over Union Pacific Project;        
authorizing the Board of Public Service to        
employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,       
fees and wages, acquire any and all said real     
and personal property rights and interests, in    
whole or in part, including easements (by lease,  
 purchase, eminent domain, condemnation, or        
 otherwise), as necessary for completion of        
 the Kingshighway Bridge Reconstruction            
 Over Union Pacific Project, and to enter into     
 supplemental agreements with the Missouri         
 Highway and Transportation Commission,            
 Federal Highway Administration, utilities,        
 railroads, and other governmental agencies for    
 the Kingshighway Bridge Reconstruction            
 Over Union Pacific Project all in accordance      
 with the federal Transportation Equity Act        
 for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.),    
 with any contract containing sections for:        
 description of the work, material guarantees,     
 estimated expenditure allocations, fund           
 reversion authorization, applicable federal and   
 state wage rate requirements, equal               
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's              
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising        
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for    
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with    
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and     
 approved by the Board of Public Service before    
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all  
 construction contracts let by authority of this   
 Ordinance provide for federal and state           
 prevailing wage requirements including            
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and      
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the    
 State of Missouri, the City Charter and the       
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;             
 requiring all specifications approved by the      
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by      
 authority of this Ordinance provide for:          
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders      
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/             
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when            
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state      
 law or regulation; contractor's compliance        
 with the provisions of Sections 285.525 thru      
 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,      
 as amended, by requiring enrollment and           
 participation in a federal work authorization     
 program and no knowing employment of              
 unauthorized aliens; contractor's compliance      
 with the provisions of Section 292.675 of the     
 Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended,         
 by providing a ten-hour Occupational Safety       
 and Health Administration construction safety     
 program for their on-site employees;              
 contractor's compliance with the provisions       
 of Section 34.057 of the Revised Statutes of      
 Missouri, as amended, (Prompt Payment/            
 Retainage), as applicable; requiring all          
 advertisements for bids pursuant to this          
 Ordinance be subject to the provisions of         
 Section 8.250 of the Revised Statutes of          
 Missouri., as amended; and appropriating          
 Eighteen Million, Five Hundred Thousand           
 Dollars ($18,500,000.00), in addition to Three    
 Million, Five Hundred Thousand Dollars            
 ($3,500,000.00) previously authorized by          
 Ordinance 68839, for the Kingshighway             
 Bridge Reconstruction Over Union Pacific         
 Project from various sources including the       
 Federal Highway Administration Safe,             
 Accountable,         Flexible,      Efficient    
 Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for          
 Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the Union Pacific        
 Railroad Company; authorizing and directing      
 the Comptroller of the City to draw warrants     
 from time to time and disburse funds             
 appropriated by this ordinance and to receive    
 and disburse grant funds in accordance with      
 the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st        
 Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the        
 signature and certification of vouchers by the   
 President of the Board of Public Service;        
 authorizing the Board of Public Service to       
 accept on behalf of the City monetary            
 donations from other governmental agencies       
 and others to assist in paying for the work      
 authorized in this Ordinance; and containing a   
 public work emergency clause.                    
             Board Bill No. 44                    
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
 all eastbound traffic traveling on Aldine        
 Avenue at Bishop P. L. Scott Avenue and          
 containing an emergency clause.                  
             Board Bill No. 45                    
       An ordinance pertaining to street          
 performers; repealing Section Four of            
 Ordinance 64105, which is codified as Section    
 20.55.030 of the Revised Code of the City of     
 St. Louis, and establishing conditions by which  
 street performers are issued permits, and        
 containing an emergency clause.                  
             Board Bill No. 47                    
       An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above  
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for      
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in the 
 easternmost 16' wide north/south alley           
 beginning at Papin and extending south to 16'    
 wide east/west alley, the 16' wide east/west     
 alley beginning at Pacific and extending west    
 to the westernmost 16' wide north/south alley    
 and the westernmost 16' wide north/south         
 alley beginning at Chouteau and extending        
 north to 16' wide east/west alley, all located in
 City Block 3946 and bounded by Papin,            
 Pacific, Chouteau and Vandeventer in the City    
 of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter           
 described, in accordance with Charter            
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4     
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
 certain conditions on such vacation.             
             Board Bill No. 50                    
      An ordinance recommended by the             
 Parking Commission making appropriation for      
 payment of the operating expenses, capital       
 equipment and improvement expenses,              
 including lease purchase agreements involving    
Parking Division assets, and debt service         
expenses of the Parking Division of the           
Treasurer's Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,      
Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking         
Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility,        
Central Downtown Parking Facility,                
Buckingham Parking Facility, Cupples Parking      
Facility and Justice Parking Facility for the     
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ending     
June 30, 2013, amounting in the aggregate to      
the sum of Fourteen Million, Twenty Seven         
Thousand, Forty Two Dollars ($14,027,042)         
and containing an emergency clause.               
     Alderman Bosley                              
     Chairman of the Committee                    
     Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on              
Transportation and Commerce submitted the         
following report which was read.                  
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
May 18, 2012.                                     
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
     The Committee on Transportation and          
Commerce to whom was referred the                 
following Board Bills, report that they have      
considered the same and recommend adoption.       
            Board Bill No. 10                     
      An Ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Airport Commission and the        
Board of Estimate and Apportionment               
authorizing transfers in the total amount not     
to exceed Two Million Six Hundred Thousand        
Dollars ($2,600,000) from the Airport             
Development Fund (established under               
Ordinance 59286, Section 13, approved             
October 26, 1984) into the Airport Revenue        
Fund (established under Ordinance 59286,          
approved October 26, 1984) as are required        
for the purposes of making funds available        
for the estimated costs of certain capital        
equipment as detailed in EXHIBIT "A", which       
is attached hereto and incorporated herein;       
containing a severability clause; and containing  
an emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 21                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing      
the issuance by the City of St. Louis, Missouri   
of its Airport Revenue Refunding Bonds,           
Series 2012, Lambert-St. Louis International      
Airport, in an aggregate principal amount not     
to exceed Thirty-Five Million Dollars             
($35,000,000) (the "Series 2012 Bonds") in        
one or more series to effect the refunding of a   
portion of the City's outstanding Airport         
Revenue Bonds as part of the aggregate amount     
of $3,500,000,000 of bonds approved by the        
voters in 1991 and 2003; providing for the        
funding of any required reserve funds and for     
the payment of costs of issuance and other        
 related transaction costs with respect to the    
 Series 2012 Bonds; setting forth terms and       
 conditions for the issuance of the Series 2012   
 Bonds; appointing a trustee, a bond registrar    
 and a paying agent in connection with the        
 Series 2012 Bonds; appointing an escrow          
 agent in connection with any outstanding         
 bonds to be refunded with the proceeds of the    
 Series 2012 Bonds; approving the form and        
 authorizing the execution and delivery of the    
 Eighteenth Supplemental Indenture of trust       
 with respect to the issuance of the Series 2012  
 Bonds including any conforming or clarifying     
 amendments to the Amended and Restated           
 Indenture of Trust, as amended and               
 supplemented, of the City; authorizing the       
 negotiated sale of the Series 2012 Bonds and     
 the execution and delivery of a Bond Purchase    
 Agreement, an escrow agreement, if any, and      
 other matters with respect thereto; authorizing  
 the preparation, execution and distribution of   
 the Preliminary Official Statement and the       
 Official Statement and the preparation,          
 execution and delivery of the Continuing         
 Disclosure Agreement; authorizing the            
 negotiation and purchase of credit               
 enhancement (including bond insurance, credit    
 facilities, and sureties), if any, and any       
 necessary related documents; authorizing the     
 proper officials, agents and employees of the    
 City to execute such documents and to take       
 such actions as are necessary or appropriate     
 in connection with the foregoing matters;        
 repealing ordinances of the City to the extent   
 inconsistent with the terms hereof; and          
 containing a severability clause and emergency   
 clause.                                          
            Board Bill No. 38                     
       An Ordinance recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission and the       
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment              
 authorizing a Seventh Supplemental               
 Appropriation in the total amount of One         
 Million Two Hundred Forty Six Thousand           
 Three Hundred Ninety Eight Dollars and           
 Eighty Five Cents ($1,246,398.85) as follows:    
 a) One Million Thirty Eight Thousand Six         
 Hundred Sixty Five Dollars and Seventy One       
 Cents ($1,038,665.71) from the Airport's FAA     
 Land Sale Account and b) Two Hundred Seven       
 Thousand Seven Hundred Thirty Three              
 Dollars and Fourteen Cents ($207,733.14)         
 from the Airport Development Fund                
 established under authority of Ordinance         
 59286, Section 13, approved October 26,          
 1984, into the Noise Mitigation Program          
 Ordinance 64192 approved November 17,            
 1997, as amended by Ordinance 65217              
 approved June 29, 2001, for the payment of       
 costs authorized; and containing an emergency    
 clause.                                          
      Aldermen Kennedy                            
      Chairman of the Committee                   
            REPORT OF                             
        SPECIAL COMMITTEES                        
      None.                                       
            PERFECTION                            
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
      Mr. Ogilvie requested that Board Bill       
 No. 7 (Committee Substitute) be placed on        
 the Board Bills for Perfection - Informal        
 Calendar.                                        
       Mr. Wessels moved that the following       
 Board Bills before the Board for perfection,     
 be perfected as reported out of Committee        
 with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board         
 Bills No. 3, 4 (Committee Substitute), 35, 6     
 (Committee Substitute) and 8.                    
      Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.                    
      Carried by voice vote.                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
       Mr. Carter requested that Board Bill No.   
 42 be placed on the Board Bills for Perfection   
 - Informal Calendar.                             
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and    
 final passage of Board Bills No. 25, 29 and      
 30.                                              
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                   
      Carried by the following vote:              
      Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Moore,       
 Hubbard, Young, Ortmann, Villa, Arnowitz,        
 Wessels, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,      
 Davis, French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie,           
 Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President        
 Reed. 23                                         
      Noes: 0                                     
      Present: 0                                  
             Board Bill No. 25                    
        An Ordinance to provide for the           
 borrowing of funds in anticipation of the        
 collection of tax payments levied by the City    
 of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
 Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending        
 December 31, 2012, and remaining uncollected     
 and other revenues remaining to be collected     
 and deposited in the General Revenue Fund        
 for fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, all such   
 revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the     
 Treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri      
 through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,   
 Missouri of its Tax and Revenue Anticipation     
 Notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement,  
 if necessary, in order to lower the cost of such 
 borrowing; prescribing the form and details of   
such Notes; authorizing and approving certain      
documents and other actions; and containing        
an emergency clause.                               
            Board Bill No. 29                      
     An ordinance authorizing and directing        
the Director of the Department of Human            
Services, via the St. Louis Area Agency on         
Aging, on behalf of the City of St. Louis, to      
accept a Grant Award from the Missouri             
Department of Health and Senior Services in        
the amount of $70,000.00 and to expend those       
funds for Long Term Care Rebalancing               
Opportunities services as set forth in the         
Notice of Grant Award and Grant Agreement          
and attached as Exhibit A; appropriating said      
funds and authorizing the Director of the          
Department of Human Services, upon                 
approval of the Board of Estimate and              
Apportionment, to expend such funds as             
permitted by the Notice of Grant Award and         
Grant Award Agreement; and containing an           
Emergency Clause.                                  
            Board Bill No. 30                      
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor, on the behalf of the City of St.        
Louis, to submit all necessary applications        
and to enter into agreements with Saint Louis      
Effort for AIDS or any other agency (Grant #       
Beacon Project) for the "AIDS United Access        
to Care Social Innovation Fund" Program and        
authorizing the Mayor, upon approval of the        
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to            
expend any funds received by said grants to        
fulfill the obligations of the grants, and         
containing an emergency clause.                    
  THIRD READING, REPORT OF                         
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                          
     AND FINAL PASSAGE                             
       OF BOARD BILLS                              
     None.                                         
         REPORT OF THE                             
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                          
     Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,          
St. Louis, May 18, 2012.                           
     To the President of the Board of              
Aldermen:                                          
     The Committee on Engrossed and                
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the            
following Board Bills report that they have        
considered the same and they are truly             
engrossed.                                         
            Board Bill No. 25                      
       An Ordinance to provide for the             
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the          
collection of tax payments levied by the City      
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General  
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending          
December 31, 2012, and remaining uncollected       
 and other revenues remaining to be collected      
 and deposited in the General Revenue Fund         
 for fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, all such    
 revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the      
 Treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri       
 through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,    
 Missouri of its Tax and Revenue Anticipation      
 Notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement,   
 if necessary, in order to lower the cost of such  
 borrowing; prescribing the form and details of    
 such Notes; authorizing and approving certain     
 documents and other actions; and containing       
 an emergency clause.                              
             Board Bill No. 29                     
      An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Director of the Department of Human           
 Services, via the St. Louis Area Agency on        
 Aging, on behalf of the City of St. Louis, to     
 accept a Grant Award from the Missouri            
 Department of Health and Senior Services in       
 the amount of $70,000.00 and to expend those      
 funds for Long Term Care Rebalancing              
 Opportunities services as set forth in the        
 Notice of Grant Award and Grant Agreement         
 and attached as Exhibit A; appropriating said     
 funds and authorizing the Director of the         
 Department of Human Services, upon                
 approval of the Board of Estimate and             
 Apportionment, to expend such funds as            
 permitted by the Notice of Grant Award and        
 Grant Award Agreement; and containing an          
 Emergency Clause.                                 
             Board Bill No. 30                     
       An ordinance authorizing and directing      
 the Mayor, on the behalf of the City of St.       
 Louis, to submit all necessary applications       
 and to enter into agreements with Saint Louis     
 Effort for AIDS or any other agency (Grant #      
 Beacon Project) for the "AIDS United Access       
 to Care Social Innovation Fund" Program and       
 authorizing the Mayor, upon approval of the       
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to           
 expend any funds received by said grants to       
 fulfill the obligations of the grants, and        
 containing an emergency clause.                   
      Alderman Vollmer                             
      Chairman of the Committee                    
      Board Bills Numbered 25, 29 and 30 were      
 read and all other business being suspended,      
 Mr. Reed, in the presence of the Board and in     
 open session, affixed his signature in            
 accordance with the provisions of the Charter.    
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                         
        CONSENT CALENDAR                           
       President Reed introduced Resolutions       
 No. 23 through 31 and the Clerk was instructed    
 to read same.                                     
            Resolution No. 23                     
                  Mary Mary                       
      WHEREAS, the Atkins sisters grew up         
 as part of a large family of nine children in    
 Inglewood, California. Their parents are         
 Thomasina, an evangelist and choir director at   
 the Evangelistic Church of God in Christ, and,   
 Eddie, a youth minister; and                     
       WHEREAS, Mary Mary was                     
 subsequently signed to Columbia Records/C2       
 Records and decided to perform under the         
 name Mary Mary, honoring Mary, the mother        
 of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. They were           
 the first gospel act to record for the industry  
 giant Columbia Records since Tramaine            
 Hawkins in the mid-1990s; and                    
       WHEREAS, Mary Mary is an American          
 gospel music duo, consisting of sisters Erica    
 Atkins-Campbell and Trecina Atkins-              
 Campbell are often credited for helping to       
 broaden the fan base of gospel music with        
 their popular song "Shackles (Praise You)" it    
 is considered one of the pioneering songs of     
 urban contemporary gospel; and                   
      WHEREAS, Mary Mary's debut album            
 Thankful (2000) was certified Platinum. The      
 duo has released three Gold albums: Thankful     
 (2000), Incredible (2002), and Mary Mary         
 (2005), which all charted No. 1 on the           
 Billboard Top Gospel Albums. They have also      
 received three Grammys, among many other         
 awards and became the first gospel artist to     
 crack the R&B top ten and gain wide exposure     
 on the MTV; and                                  
        WHEREAS, Mary Mary, with their            
 tremendous accomplishments, are quick to         
 point out that they're driven by something       
 far greater--"It's not just about musical        
 achievements, awards, charts and sales," says    
 Erica. "That's not our guiding light. It's about 
 connecting with people and offering them real    
 hope...hope that, ultimately, changes lives."    
 "We're committed to our message and              
 purpose," adds Tina. "Years later, we're still   
 here; our fans are still with us and our audience
 is still growing. We're just so grateful to still
 have this opportunity."                          
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for            
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize the contributions     
 and selflessness of sisters Erica Atkins-        
 Campbell and Trecina Atkins-Campbell and         
 direct the Clerk of this Board to prepare a      
 commemorative copy of this resolution to the     
 end that it may be presented to our honorees     
 at a time and place deemed appropriate by        
 the sponsor.                                     
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2012 by:      
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
            Resolution No. 24                         
           Mother Azelie Pitts                        
     WHEREAS, Azelie Simmons-Pitts was                
born July 26, 1917 in St. Louis. The third of         
ten children, Mother Pitts was educated in            
the St. Louis Public Schools; and                     
      WHEREAS, Mother Pitts was married               
to Harry Vincent Pitts for 34 years had 15            
children, (eight girls and seven boys). When          
Harry's passing presented a great challenge,          
God saw her through to raising them all               
through the trials and tribulations of life. She'll   
let you know, "She learned how to trust and           
depend on Jesus"; and                                 
     WHEREAS, Mother Pitts has been has               
been blessed to have 5 generations, (45               
grandchildren, 59 great grandchildren, and 9          
great-great grandchildren). Mother Pitts is           
also known for her delicious homemade                 
chocolate candies, which she shares with              
many; and                                             
     WHEREAS, ordained a Deaconess                    
under the leadership of Apostles, Lee and             
Doris Rice at Victory Christian Outreach              
Church. She is always willing to share her            
Godly words of wisdom and encouragement;              
and                                                   
      WHEREAS, she says, "I feel like the             
richest woman in the world!" God has given            
her health and strength and long life. Mother         
Pitts also says, "Trust and obey in the Lord          
and he will fulfill all of his promises through       
his holy word!"                                       
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for                 
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
deliberations to recognize the contributions          
and selflessness of Mother Azelie Pitts and           
direct the Clerk of this Board to prepare a           
commemorative copy of this resolution to the          
end that it may be presented to our honorees          
at a time and place deemed appropriate by             
the sponsor.                                          
Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2012 by:           
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
            Resolution No. 25                         
             Fred Hammond                             
      WHEREAS, Fred Hammond a multi-                  
instrumentalist, producer, and vocalist is one        
of the most popular praise & worship leaders          
in Gospel. Born in Detroit, Mr. Hammond               
began singing with his church choir at the age        
of 12; and                                            
       WHEREAS, Fred Hammond first gained              
 recognition with the gospel group The Winans,         
 by 1985 he was one of the six original members        
 of the group Commissioned and participated            
 in 10 of the group's 12 albums; and                   
      WHEREAS, Fred Hammond, after                     
 Commissioned, gained fame in the gospel               
 community after selling millions of albums            
 with his musical group Radical For Christ;            
 and                                                   
       WHEREAS, Fred Hammond's solo                    
 career began in 1991, in 2010 Hammond set             
 up his own label imprint, Hammond Family              
 Entertainment, and released the CD/DVD set,           
 Life in the Word; and                                 
      WHEREAS, Fred Hammond is a                       
 multiple Grammy, Dove, Stellar Award                  
 Winner and nominee as a performer, producer           
 and writer.                                           
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for                 
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to recognize the contributions          
 and selflessness of Fred Hammond and direct           
 the Clerk of this Board to prepare a                  
 commemorative copy of this resolution to the          
 end that it may be presented to our honorees          
 at a time and place deemed appropriate by             
 the sponsor.                                          
 Introduced on the 13th day of May, 2012 by:           
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward       
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
             Resolution No. 26                         
     Delta Day at St. Louis City Hall                  
      WHEREAS, Delta Sigma Theta                       
 Sorority, Inc. was founded on January 13,             
 1913, by twenty-two visionary woman at                
 Howard University; and                                
      WHEREAS, since that day Delta                    
 members have been actively involved in almost         
 every major social movement in the United             
 States; and                                           
       WHEREAS, the first public act                   
 performed by the Delta founders involved              
 their participation in the historic Women's           
 Suffrage March in Washington, D.C. during             
 March of 1913; and                                    
     WHEREAS, originally chartered as                  
 Lambda Sigma, the Saint Louis Alumnae                 
 Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta has been                 
 committed to public service for over 90 years;        
 and                                                   
       WHEREAS, every Delta uses her                   
 influence for the enactment of laws to protect        
 the unfortunate and for the repeal of those           
 laws which deprive human beings of their              
 privileges and rights; and                          
      WHEREAS, Delta Sigma Theta is                  
 increasingly involved in important issues at        
 the local, state and federal levels in global       
 issues, and recently received special               
 consultative status with the United Nations;        
 and                                                 
       WHEREAS, Deltas from across the               
 nation travel to Washington, D.C. to                
 participate in "Delta Days in the Nation's          
 Capitol"; and                                       
      WHEREAS, on Friday, May 18, 2012,              
 Deltas from throughout the St. Louis                
 metropolitan area will gather to celebrate the      
 annual "Delta Day at St. Louis City Hall."          
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our         
 deliberations to recognize and honor the            
 members of the St. Louis Alumnae Chapter of         
 Delta Sigma Theta Sorority and we thank them        
 for their tireless efforts on behalf of the         
 citizens of this community and we direct the        
 Clerk of this Board to prepare a                    
 commemorative copy of this Resolution to            
 the end that it may be presented to our             
 honorees at a time and place deemed                 
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                         
 Introduced on the 18th day of May, 2012 by:         
 Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward     
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
 Honorable Charles Quincy Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward   
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward        
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward     
 Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward         
 Honorable Tammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5th Ward       
 Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward     
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward         
 Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward       
 Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward         
 Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward     
 Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward          
 HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard      
 Honorable Carol J. Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward      
 Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward     
 Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward       
 Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward           
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward          
 Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward           
 HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward       
 Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward        
 Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward         
 Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward          
 Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward             
 Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward       
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward      
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward         
           Resolution No. 27                     
                  Alex King                      
     WHEREAS, we pause in our                    
deliberations to note the passing of Alex King;  
and                                              
     WHEREAS, Alex King was born                 
November 27, 1935 to the union of Forrest        
King and Mary Basket in Shaw Mississippi.        
He graduated from Shaw High School in 1954;      
and                                              
       WHEREAS, Mr. King confessed is hope       
in Christ Pilgrim Baptist Church in Shaw,        
Mississippi. He later moved to St. Louis,        
Missouri and became a member of New White        
Stone Missionary Baptist Church in the early     
sixties. During the seventies he was elected     
Chairman of the Trustee Board and also a         
member of the Deacon Board. He was               
instrumental in the purchasing of the current    
church. His devotion to New White Stone          
Missionary Baptist Church was unconditional      
to its entire membership; and                    
      WHEREAS, He was employed with              
General Motors for twenty-six years. He          
retired in 1993 as a Foreman. To continue the    
legacy of C&K Barbecue, he took over             
ownership in 2002 and continued his              
entrepreneurship with C&K Barbecue; and          
      WHEREAS, Mr. King was the Treasurer        
of Fairground Housing Association. He also       
served on the Executive Board of the Third       
Ward Neighborhood Counsel for over twenty-       
five years and helped bring vitalization to the  
Third Ward; and                                  
     WHEREAS, Mr. King was united for            
forty-two years of Holy Matrimony to             
Gloria Sondra Mischeaux and five children,       
Alex Jr., Joyce, Byron, Lutitia and              
Tunderleauch joined this union; and              
     WHEREAS, he departed this life on           
May 8th 2012. He was preceded in death by        
Mary Basket (mother) Forrest King (father),      
one brother James Quinicey, two sisters, Annie   
Mae Collins and Josephine Allen; and             
      WHEREAS, Mr. King leaves to cherish        
his memory Gloria Sondra King, Alex King Jr.     
(Ranee') Joyce King, Byron Mischeaux,            
Lutitia Nelson (Johnny) and Tunderleauch         
Mischeaux Carroll (Randall), two special         
granddaughters, Tyra Buckley and Aloha           
Mischeaux that he raised as his own daughters,   
24 grandchildren, nine great grandchildren and   
three God daughters, siblings; Jimmy Wren,       
Riley Phillips (Diane), Emmitt Phillips,         
Climmitt Phillips (Pearl), Ottis Phillips (      
Deloris), Rosie White, Mattie Be Collins         
(Tommy) and three additional sisters and four    
additional brothers, in laws, Charles            
Mischeaux (Margo), Harold Mischeaux              
 (Elmita) and a special Aunt, Mozella Russell.     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause to            
 remember Alex King and we join with his many      
 friends in expressing our sorrow at her passing,  
 and we further direct the Clerk of this Board     
 to spread a copy of this Resolution across the    
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a     
 memorial copy for presentation to the King        
 family, at a time and place deemed appropriate    
 by the Sponsor.                                   
 Introduced on the 15th day of May, 2012 by:       
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward   
            Resolution No. 28                      
      5th District Officer of the Year             
                 Ceremony                          
      WHEREAS, the 5th District Business           
 Association will sponsor its 5th District         
 Officer of the Year Ceremony luncheon on          
 Wednesday, May 16, 2012; and                      
      WHEREAS, under the outstanding               
 leadership of 5th District Commander/Captain      
 Mary E. Edwards-Fears have the officers of        
 5th District continued to serve and protect       
 the residents of the City of St. Louis in an      
 exemplarily fashion; and                          
      WHEREAS, police officers and                 
 detectives; Michael Kegel (January), Crystal      
 English (January), Thomas Zipf, Jr.               
 (February), Kyle Chandler (March), Ronald         
 Vaughan (March), Thomas Streckfuss (April),       
 Thomas Mayer (April), Scott Wilmot (May),         
 Joseph Tomlinson (May), Scott Wilmot              
 (June), Joseph Tomlinson (June), David Kalu       
 (July), Michael Owens (July), Thomas              
 Mayer (August),          Timothy Boyce            
 (September), Kevin Newcombe (September),          
 Kyle Chandler (October), Ronald Vaughan           
 (October), Robert Weatherspoon (November),        
 Nicola Lampkin (November), Kyle Chandler          
 (December) and Ronald Vaughan (December)          
 have been recognized by their peers as            
 "Officers of the Month for 2011"; and             
      WHEREAS, Police Officers Scott               
 Wilmot and Joseph Tomlinson have been             
 further deemed as "Officer of the Year 2011";     
 and                                               
      WHEREAS, the residents and                   
 stakeholders of the Jeff-Vander-Lou, St. Louis    
 Place, Old North St. Louis, Near North            
 Riverfront, Hyde Park, College Hill,              
 Fairground, O'Fallon and Fairground are all       
 appreciative of the bravery and commitment        
 of the 5th District officers and officials.       
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize the men and women    
 of the 5th District for making the City of St.  
 Louis a better place to live and work and we    
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes    
 of these proceedings and to prepare a           
 commemorative copy to the end that it may       
 be presented to our honorees at a time and      
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.        
 Introduced on the 18th day of May, 2012 by:     
 Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward 
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward    
 HonorableTammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5thWard     
 HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward   
            Resolution No. 29                    
             Ira James Fowlkes                   
      WHEREAS, Mr. Fowlkes was the               
 General Manager KBDY-FM at the age 27,          
 one of the youngest GMs in America. He was      
 the Co-Founder of the National Black Media      
 Association for St. Louis; and                  
       WHEREAS, Mr. Fowlkes helped obtain        
 historic designation for the Ville Neighborhood 
 and helped establish Ville Fair working with    
 the VP Foundation. It was the first Black       
 non-profit to have booth at the VP Fair and     
 partner to create the first fireworks display in
 North St. Louis. He was chairman of the         
 Northside Preservation Commission,              
 representing the 3rd Ward and 26th Ward;        
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, he was Executive Director         
 of the Dr. Martin Luther King Committee,        
 which hosted a parade for the King Holiday,     
 drawing over 5,000 participants and over        
 30,000 spectators; and                          
      WHEREAS, Mr. Fowlkes was a member          
 of IBEW Local 2 and worked as an Organizer.     
 He was also a member of St. Louis Labor         
 Council, Teamsters Local 688. He helped         
 organize the Coalition of Black Trade Unions;   
 and                                             
      WHEREAS, from 1985-2010 he worked          
 for the City of St. Louis overseeing the        
 construction of city cable systems. He          
 designed the system for installations of        
 government buildings, all public schools,       
 private and parochial, designed present right-  
 of-way process for installing cable in the City 
 of St. Louis right-of-ways and maintain all     
 records, help create local government access    
 channel (STLTV.ORG) purchase first              
 equipment, resolved over 100,000 complaints     
 for subscribers, business, alderman and         
 contractor's, and design EEO process for cable  
 companies; and                                  
     WHEREAS, BFGF Inc. with the                 
 Hudson family built 20 homes, changing the      
Delmar/Vandeventer Neighborhood, this was             
a multi-million dollar project. All homes were        
sold and are presently occupied; and                  
      WHEREAS, his greatest joys was when             
he took over 1,000 children to the Steamers           
Soccer games and the Forest Park picnics,             
allowing them to appreciate the beautiful             
treasures St. Louis as to offered, showing them       
that life can be good for them too. Also he           
took over 500 seniors to dinner, rented a hall        
and allowed them to enjoy themselves as well          
as to be appreciated; and                             
     WHEREAS, Mr. Fowlkes hosted a talk               
show on KATZ-AM for over 10 years and 1               
year at WGNU-AM and is a member of                    
Church on the Rock; and                               
    WHEREAS, he is married to Karen                   
Drayton-Fowlkes and has four children,                
Dawn Fowlkes, Dionne Fowlkes, Krystal                 
(Fowlkes) Harris and Joshua T. Hughes.                
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                              
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
the City of St. Louis that we happily pause in        
our deliberations to recognize the many               
achievements of Ira James Fowlkes and we              
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread      
a copy of this Resolution across the                  
permanent rolls of this Board and to prepare          
a commemorative copy to the end that it may           
be presented to our honoree at a time and             
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
Introduced on the 18th day of May, 2012 by:           
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward            
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Charles Quincy Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward     
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward          
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward       
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward           
Honorable Tammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5th Ward         
Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward       
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward           
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward         
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward         
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward           
Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward       
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward            
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard        
Honorable Carol J. Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward        
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward         
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward             
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward          
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward             
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward         
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward          
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward           
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward            
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward               
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward         
 Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward        
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward           
             Resolution No. 30                         
               Mark Vassell                            
      WHEREAS, Mark Vassell will soon be               
 graduating from McCluer High School; and              
       WHEREAS, he is a recipient of the               
 prestigious Gates Millennium Scholarship; and         
      WHEREAS, the Gates Millennium                    
 Scholarship is extremely competitive with             
 over 30,000 applicants for the 1,000                  
 scholarships; and                                     
      WHEREAS, Mark will be attending the              
 University of Missouri to continue his                
 education; and                                        
       WHEREAS, Mark joined the College                
 Assurance Society, Men on Business as a high          
 school freshman and was elected as the                
 president of the organization in his junior           
 year,                                                 
       WHEREAS, the College Assurance                  
 Society mentors students so they can be               
 accepted at a college of their choice on the          
 basis of merit; and                                   
      WHEREAS, the motto of the College                
 Assurance Society is Kindergarten to PhD              
 graduating debt free; by utilizing internships,       
 scholarships, collegiate employment.                  
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                              
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to recognize to recognize the           
 accomplishments of Mark Vassell and to                
 convey our most heartfelt best wishes as he           
 continues his educational endeavors. We               
 further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread      
 a copy of this Resolution across the minutes          
 of these proceedings and to prepare a                 
 commemorative copy to the end that it may             
 be presented at a time and place deemed               
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                           
 Introduced on the 18th day of May, 2012 by:           
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
             Resolution No. 31                         
               Geneva Gentry                           
      WHEREAS, we have been apprised that              
 on May 12, 2012, Geneva Gentry celebrated             
 her glorious 100th Birthday; and                      
      WHEREAS, Geneva Gentry was born                  
 in Waynesboro, Mississippi. An only child,            
 she came to St. Louis with her mother at the          
 age of 9. Soon after, she started to attend           
 church with neighbors and found she had a             
 passion to serve God.; and                            
       WHEREAS, She graduated from Vashon              
 High School and took business classes at      
 Washington University.; and                   
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Gentry married             
 Joshua Gentry in 1942 and raised two          
 children, Joseph W. Gentry, a retired Army    
 Lieutenant of Colorado Springs, Colorado, and 
 Marabeth Gentry, a singer and retired teacher 
 with St. Louis Public Schools. She also has   
 two grandchildren and four great-             
 grandchildren. Her husband died in 1990; and  
      WHEREAS, Mrs. Gentry, is also an         
 Evangelist-Pastor of the Southern Missionary  
 Baptist Church. She is inspirational to a lot 
 of musicians and influential to many young    
 people; and                                   
       WHEREAS, when she enters the room,      
 everyone seems to gravitate toward her. She   
 is a premier lady in St. Louis; and           
      WHEREAS, since 1999, Mrs. Gentry         
 has been active in the National Convention of 
 Gospel Choirs and Choruses, founded by        
 Dorsey. As consecration coordinator for the   
 group, she made an appearance in the 1982     
 documentary "Say Amen, Somebody,"             
 featuring Ford Smith; and                     
      WHEREAS, in the community, Gentry        
 was a charter member and chaplain in the      
 1960s and 1970s of the Yeatman District       
 Community Corporation and helped organize     
 the Yeatman Parent-Child Care Center. The     
 center served families and unwed mothers.     
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                     
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of          
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our    
 deliberations to congratulate Geneva Gentry   
 on the occasion of her 100th Birthday and we  
 wish her continued peace, good health and     
 happiness and we further direct the Clerk of  
 this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
 across the minutes of these proceedings and   
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end    
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a  
 time and place deemed appropriate by the      
 Sponsor.                                      
 Introduced on the 18th day of May, 2012 by:   
 Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward  
      Unanimous consent having been            
 obtained Resolutions No. 23 through 31 stood  
 considered.                                   
      Ms. Davis moved that Resolution No.      
 26 be passed en banc.                         
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
      President Reed moved that Resolution     
 No. 29 be passed en banc.                     
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      President Reed moved that Resolutions    
No. 23 through 31 be adopted, at this meeting  
of the Board.                                  
     Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                 
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
         FIRST READING OF                      
           RESOLUTIONS                         
     None.                                     
       SECOND READING OF                       
          RESOLUTIONS                          
     None.                                     
      MISCELLANEOUS AND                        
      UNFINISHED BUSINESS                      
     None.                                     
          ANNOUNCEMENTS                        
     None.                                     
        EXCUSED ALDERMEN                       
     Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the           
following aldermen due to their necessary      
absence: Ms. Howard, Mr. Vollmer and Mr.       
Schmid.                                        
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
             ADJOURNMENT                       
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under       
rules to return May 24, 2012.                  
     Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
     Respectfully submitted,                   
     David W. Sweeney                          
     Clerk, Board of Aldermen                  
  BOARD OF                                     
PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
        REGULAR MEETING                        
     St. Louis, MO - May 22, 2012              
     Board met at 1:45 P.M.                    
     Present: Directors Waelterman,            
Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Roth and President      
Bradley.                                       
     Absent: Directors Skouby and Bess.        
(excused)                                      
      Requests of the Directors of Public      
Utilities and Parks, Recreation and Forestry   
to be excused from the Regular Meeting of      
May 22, 2012 was read and leave of absence     
granted.                                       
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May       
 15, 2011 ordered approved.                       
       Communications, reports, recommenda-       
 tions and documents were submitted by Board      
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:     
                PRESIDENT                         
      Preliminary approval given and 10 days      
 granted in which to sign same:                   
      Letting No. 8507 - West Florissant          
 Avenue Signal Interconnect/Upgrade, Reinhold     
 Electric, 2511 Lemay Ferry Road, St. Louis,      
 MO 63125, Amount: $1,446,027.27                  
        DIRECTORS OF                              
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                     
        4 Permits ordered approved                
 Southwestern Bell Telephone Company d/b/         
 a AT and T Missouri ordered approved, subject    
 to certain conditions as follows: 118367,        
 starting from existing AmerenUE power pole       
 located in front of #1 Product row (aka 101-     
 215 No. Market) turning and going under          
 sidewalk and meeting up with existing            
 customer provided conduit, 118368, starting      
 at existing AT and T manhole located at          
 intersection of No. 10th Street and No.          
 Market, bore east down No. Market then turn      
 and go up to a pole at front of 916 No. Market.  
 The pole is stenciled F914, 118394, start at     
 AT and T easement at side of 1300 Ohio, bore     
 west for 13' onto Ohio 1' off edge of pavement   
 and turn south and bore along Ohio Avenue        
 past Caroline Street across Park Avenue to       
 AT and T manhole located in road on east,        
 etc., 118418, bore and place 2" pipe with fiber  
 begin at existing manhole south of 4102          
 Margaretta bore 165' west to right 4115 San      
 Francisco and turn south into AT and T           
 easement VRAD cabinet being placed on AT         
 and T easement.                                  
       4 Permits for AT and T Missouri ordered    
 approved, subject to certain conditions as       
 follows: 118375, trench and bury fiber in east   
 right of way of Germania starting at an AT       
 and T hand hole in the east right of Germania    
 north of Idaho going south east onto customer    
 property, 118382, bore and place 2" poly pipe    
 with fiber begin at existing easement at rear    
 8412 South Broadway bore to Marceau turn         
 and bore to existing manhole near 425            
 Marceau, 118417, cut and restore 2' x 4' slot    
 of South Compton and Osceola, bore and           
 place a fiber optic cable from the corner of     
 South Compton and Osceola to front of 3217       
 Osceola, bore and place fiber cable from the     
 front of 3217 Osceola to rear of 4351 South      
 Compton, 118403, bore and place fiber optic      
 cable from corner of Chariton and Michigan       
 to rear of 3112 Meramec place fiber hand hole    
 in grass, hand hole size 70" x 30" x 34".        
       5 Permits for Charter Communications     
 ordered approved, subject to certain           
 conditions as follows: 118415, start in alley  
 behind 5900 Arsenal Street riser down pole     
 going east along north side of alley over to   
 west side of Campbell Plaza a distance of      
 approximately 95', 118416, starting at south   
 side of 4630 Lindell Blvd. (alley) bore a duct 
 west down the alley to Euclid turn north up    
 Euclid to utility pole east of 225 Euclid,     
 118413, start at east side of 319 4th Street to
 bore a duct south on 4th Street to manhole in  
 intersection of Olive and 4th Street on west   
 side of 220 4th Street right of way footage is 
 295', 118412, start at north side of 200 No.   
 Broadway (Olive Street) bore a duct south      
 down alley and turn west into 200 No.          
 Broadway for a total distance of 216', 118411, 
 starting at wet side of 500 No. Broadway bore  
 a duct north to North Broadway turn eat on     
 Lucas ending at Charter vault on north side of 
 405 Washington for a total right of way footage
 of 646'.                                       
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      Application No. 118420, Harry             
 Baylock, consolidate 2 parcels into 1 lot at   
 5615-19 Lotus in C.B. 4914 ordered             
 approved, subject to certain conditions.       
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Application No. 118438, Llywelyn's        
 Pub, encroach with sidewalk cafe at 4747       
 McPherson ordered filed, duplicate             
 application.                                   
     DIRECTORS OF STREETS                       
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                     
      Application No. 118398, Epiphany of       
 Our Lord Catholic Church, hold event           
 September 14-15, 2012, closing Smiley          
 between Ivanhoe and Leola September 13-16,     
 2012 ordered approved, subject to certain      
 conditions.                                    
      DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                       
    RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
      Application No. 118421, J and M           
 Displays Inc., hold firework display May 21,   
 2012 ordered approved, subject to certain      
 conditions.                                    
     DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                        
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                      
   AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS                     
      3 Permits for Union Communion             
 Ministries, hold event in Ivory Perry Park     
 ordered approved, subject to certain           
 conditions as follows: 118391, June 24, 2012,  
 118393, July 22, 2012, 118392, August 26,      
 2012.                                          
  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                       
      2 Conditional Use Permits ordered           
approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,     
per Board Order No. 766 as follows: 118440,       
4417 Westminister, home remodeling business       
(office use only) home occupancy wavier and,      
118441, 4551 Lewis Place as a lawn service        
(office use only) home occupancy wavier.          
     Agenda Items for May 22, 2012 ordered        
approved.                                         
    The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,          
May 29, 2012.                                     
                 Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                 President                        
ATTEST:                                           
                 Cherise D. Thomas                
                 Secretary                        
            Office of the                         
       Board of Public Service                    
          City of St. Louis                       
     DESIGN-BUILD PROPOSALS will be               
received for the Public Work hereinafter          
mentioned by the Board of Public Service,         
1200 Market Street, Room 301 City Hall, until     
4:30 P.M., St. Louis, Missouri time on JUNE       
7, 2012:                                          
JOB TITLE: NEW POLICE HEAD-                       
QUARTERS, 1915 OLIVE - TENANT                     
RENOVATIONS                                       
DEPOSIT: $145,225.00                              
     Bridging documents and Form of               
Contract may be examined at the Office of the     
President of the Board of Public Service,         
Room 301 City Hall. Bridging documents may        
be viewed on BPS website: http://www.stl-         
bps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).     
     Sets of Drawings, Specifications and         
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving           
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of        
SEVENTY-FIVE dollars ($75.00) for each set.       
     Purchased sets become the property of        
the prospective bidder and no refunds will        
be made.                                          
      Proposals must be made on blank forms       
to be furnished by the President of the Board     
of Public Service, and must be submitted to       
Room 301 City Hall.                               
      Each proposer shall specify in his          
proposal in figures, without interlineations,     
alterations, or erasures, a unit price for each   
of those items where so called for in the         
proposal, and shall show the products of the      
respective unit prices and estimated quantities.  
He shall also show in figures bid proposals       
 for all items on which Lump Sum figures are        
 requested, and, in addition thereto, at the end    
 of the bid the Lump Sum for which he will          
 perform all of the estimated work, as requested    
 by the general requirements and covenants,         
 specifications, and plans.                         
      In case of a discrepancy between the          
 gross sum shown in the proposal and that           
 obtained by the addition of the bid prices as      
 applied to the basic items, the latter shall       
 prevail.                                           
      Each proposal must be accompanied by          
 a Cashier's or Treasurer's Check of a Bank or      
 Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,          
 payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or     
 a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,         
 for the amount of Deposit required, as             
 heretofore stated.                                 
       All work under this contract will be paid    
 for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the     
 work completed, less a retained amount of          
 ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including        
 all retained percentages, will be made within      
 ten (10) days after completion of all work and     
 final acceptance by the City.                      
       The City of St. Louis will affirmatively     
 insure that in any contract entered into           
 pursuant to this advertisement, minority           
 business enterprises will be afforded full         
 opportunity to submit bids in response to          
 this invitation and will not be discriminated      
 against on the grounds of race, color or national  
 origin in consideration for an award. The          
 M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.         
       The Contract shall provide that not less     
 than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the    
 City of St. Louis as determined by the             
 Department of Labor and Industrial Relations       
 of the State of Missouri for each craft or type    
 of workmen needed in the actual construction       
 work on the site of the construction job herein    
 authorized, as well as the general prevailing      
 rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall     
 be paid to all workmen.                            
      All labor to be performed under this          
 contract shall be subject to the provisions of     
 Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the      
 Revised Statutes of Missouri.                      
      The City Workforce Diversity                  
 Ordinance 68412 is applicable to this project.     
      All bidders must regard Federal               
 Executive Order 11246, "Notice of                  
 Requirement for Affirmative Action to              
 Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity",              
 the "Equal Opportunity Clause" and the             
 "Standard Federal Equal Employment                 
 Specifications" set forth within and referenced    
 at www.stl-bps.org (Virtual Plan Room).            
       The right of the Board of Public Service  
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.       
                  President                      
 ATTEST:                                         
                  Cherise D. Thomas              
                  Secretary                      
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
    BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                      
      REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                 
 for OPEN-ENDED CIVIL, STRUCTURAL,               
 SURVEYING,           GEOTECHNICAL,              
 ESTIMATING, AND DRAFTING                        
 SERVICES, LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                     
 INTERNATIONALAIRPORT(R). Statements             
 of Qualifications due by 5:00 PM CT, June       
 7, 2012 at Board of Public Service, 1200        
 Market, Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO       
 63103. RFQ may be obtained from website         
 www.stl-bps.org, under Contracts & Bids,        
 Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at   
 314-589-6214.                                   
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
      A public hearing will be held by the       
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on             
 Wednesday, June 6, 2012 in Room 208 City        
 Hall to conisder the following:                 
       APPEAL #9996 - Appeal filed by            
 Medinah Temple #39 from the determination       
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of   
 an occupancy permit authorizing the             
 Appellant to operate a sit down/carryout full   
 drink restaurant with a outdoor patio, in the   
 lower level at 1515 N. Market. WARD 5           
 #AO497944-12 ZONE: "A" - Single                 
 Family Dwelling District                        
      APPEAL #9997 - Appeal filed by             
 Jackson Supply, from the determination of       
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an   
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to operate a warehouse with wholesale of food   
 products at 6121 Wells. WARD 22                 
 #AO497639-12 ZONE: "F" - Neighbor-              
 hood Commercial District                        
      APPEAL #9998 - Appeal filed by B &         
 G Auto Sales, from the determination of the     
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an       
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to operate an office and used car lot at 2834   
 Chippewa. WARD 20 #AO496620-12                  
 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial             
 District                                        
       APPEAL #9999 - Appeal filed by            
 Soulard Sweet Treats, from the determination    
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of   
an occupancy permit authorizing the                 
Appellant to operate a sit down/carryout ice        
cream parlor with sidewalk seating at 822           
Lafayette. WARD 7 #AO498061-12 ZONE:                
"D" - Multiple Family Dwelling District             
"G" - Local Commercial & Office District            
      APPEAL #10000 - Appeal filed by Loop          
Trolley Co from the determination of the            
Building Commissioner in the denial of a            
building permit authorizing the Appellant to        
do interior and exterior alterations, per plans,    
for a trolley storage, repair and painting          
facility at 5875-89 Delmar. WARD 26                 
#AB497288-12 ZONE: "G" - Local                      
Commercial and Office District                      
     In accordance with the provisions of           
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.           
    By authority of the Board of                    
Adjustment.                                         
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                        
 PUBLIC NOTICE PUBLIC NOTICE                        
  A public hearing will be held by the              
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on                 
Wednesday, June 13, 2012 in Room 208 City           
Hall to conisder the following:                     
      APPEAL #10001 - Appeal filed by               
Superior Canine Institute LLC from the              
determination of the Building Commissioner          
in the denial of an occupancy permit                
authorizing the Appellant to operate a canine       
training facility at 2607 Texas. WARD 6             
#AO498003-12 ZONE: "C" - Multiple                   
Family Dwelling District                            
      APPEAL #10002 - Appeal filed by               
Stifel Nicolaus from the determination of the       
Building Commissioner in the denial of a            
building permit authorizing the Appellant to        
install one wall sign and two roof signs            
(illuminated) per plans, at 501 N. Broadway.        
WARD 7 #AB497954-12 ZONE: "I" -                     
Central Business District                           
     APPEAL #10003 - Appeal filed by                
Pavel Rusu, from the determination of the           
Building Commissioner in the denial of a            
building permit authorizing the Appellant to        
construct an additional and rear deck, per          
plans, at 7815 S. Broadway. WARD 11                 
#AB497794-12 ZONE:                "F" -             
Neighborhood Commercial District                    
      APPEAL #10004 - Appeal filed by               
Urban Chestnut Brewing Company, from the            
determination of the Building Commissioner          
in the denial of a building permit authorizing      
the Appellant to construct a beer garden and        
do interior alterations, per plans, for additional  
toilet rooms at 3207 Washington. WARD 19            
 #AB497350-12 ZONE:             "H" - Area        
 Commercial District                              
       APPEAL #10005 - Appeal filed by JP         
 Morgan Chase Bank, from the determination        
 of the Board of Public Service in the denial of  
 a subdivision plat authorizing the Appellant     
 to subdivide properties in city block 1499 at    
 3219-21-23 Utah. WARD 9 BPS #118304              
 ZONE: "B" - Two Family Dwelling District         
      In accordance with the provisions of        
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.        
     By authority of the Board of                 
 Adjustment.                                      
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                     
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      There will not be a Conditional Use         
 hearing held at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, June      
 7, 2012 in Room 208 City Hall.                   
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held      
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on            
 Thursday, June 14, 2012 on the following         
 conditional uses:                                
      5331 St. Louis Ave. - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - The Children of Abraham Learning        
 Center ( Home Daycare/10 children, 6am to        
 12am/Sun-Sat) "F"- Neighborhood                  
 Commercial. Lf Ward 1                            
      4184 West Belle - Home Occupancy            
 Waiver - Generation II Trucking LLC              
 (Delivery/Office Use Only) "C- Multiple          
 Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 18             
     6524 Hoffman Ave. - Home Occupancy           
 Waiver - Leo's Heating & Cooling (Heating &      
 Cooling/Office Use Only) "D- Multiple            
 Family Dwelling District. Lf Ward 24             
      5782 DeGiverville - Home Occupancy          
 Waiver - American Management Property            
 Service (Construction & Contracting/ Office      
 Use Only) "A- Single Family Dwelling             
 District. Db Ward 28                             
       3711 N. 14th - Home Occupancy Waiver       
 - Joes General Contracting & Sales (General      
 Contractor/Developer/ Office Use Only) "B-       
 Two Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 3          
      3911 Juniata Street - Home Occupancy        
 Waiver - Dirty Girl Farms (Urban Farm/ Office    
 Use Only) "A- Single Family Dwelling             
 District. Te Ward 15                             
      3501 Indiana - #AO-497526-12 -              
 Loving Hearts Child Care Center (Daycare/        
 30 Infants/6am to 10pm/Mon-Fri.//1st fl/No       
 Cooking) "C" Multiple Family Dwelling          
 District. Te Ward 20                           
       1423-25 Hodiamont - #AO-497888 -         
 12 - A Child's Place Learning Center (Daycare/ 
 70 Children/30 Infants/40 2 1/2 to 5 yrs./Mon- 
 Sat./6:30 am to 12 Midn./No Cooking 1st fl)    
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District. Db     
 Ward 22                                        
     8344 N Broadway - #AO-497177-12 -          
 Loving Hearts Adult Daycare (Daycare/50        
 Adults/Mon.-Sat./6am to 7pm/No Cooking)        
 "K"- Unrestricted District. Te "F"             
 Neighborhood Commercial District "G" Local     
 Commercial and Office District. Ward 2         
     8350 N. Broadway - #AO-497178-12-          
 Lights On Broadway (Banquet Facility/          
 Cooking/3 Full Drink Bars/ A, B, C & Storage)  
 "K"- Unrestricted District. Te "F"             
 Neighborhood Commercial District. "G"          
 Local Commercial and Office District. Ward     
 2                                              
      3739 Page - #AO-498238-12 - J'S On        
 The Ave (Banquet Hall w/Cooking /              
 Consumption of Liquor & Sidewalk Seating)      
 "F" - Neighborhood Commercial District. Te     
 Ward 18                                        
      324 N. Euclid - #AO-497425-12 -           
 Mike's Bikes (Bike Shop/ Sales and Repairs)    
 "H"- Area Commercial District. Te Ward 28      
      5280 Fyler - #AO-498287-12 - St. Louis    
 Muttropolitan (Dog Daycare & Grooming)         
 "F"- Neighborhood Commercial District . Te     
 Ward 10                                        
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                 
      The Housing, Urban Development and        
 Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of     
 Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on June    
 7, 2012 at 10:00 A.M. in the Kennedy Room      
 (208) in City Hall:                            
        BOARD BILL NO. 9                        
          Introduced By                         
   Alderman Freeman Bosley, Sr.                 
      An Ordinance recommended by the           
 Planning Commission on February 1, 2012,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated  
 on the District Map, from "C" Multiple-        
 Family Dwelling District and "G" Local         
 Commercial and Office District to the "F"      
 Neighborhood Commercial District only in       
 City Block 5217 (3617 Glasgow and 2900-50      
 Natural Bridge), so as to include the described
 parcels of land in City Block 5217; and        
 containing an emergency clause.                
      BOARD BILL NO. 17                          
        Introduced By                            
 Alderwoman Tammika Hubbard                      
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on April 4, 2012, to         
change the zoning of property as indicated on    
the District Map, from "D" Multiple-Family       
Dwelling District to the "F" Neighborhood        
Commercial District, in City Block 628 (1712,    
1714 & 1716 N. 14th Street and 1713 & 1715       
N. 13th Street), so as to include the described  
parcels of land in City Block 628; and           
containing an emergency clause.                  
         BOARD BILL NO. 19                       
           Introduced By                         
       Alderman Scott Ogilvie                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on September 6, 2006,        
to change the zoning of property as indicated    
on the District Map, from "A" Single-Family      
Dwelling District and "F" Neighborhood           
Commercial District to the "F" Neighborhood      
Commercial District only in City Block 5100      
(7201-03 Piccadilly), so as to include the       
described parcel of land in City Block 5100;     
and containing an emergency clause.              
         BOARD BILL NO. 48                       
           Introduced By                         
     Alderman Kenneth Ortmann                    
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on May 2, 2012, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on    
the District Map, from "F" Neighborhood          
Commercial District to the "C" Multiple-         
Family Dwelling District, in City Block 1971     
(2900-08 Indiana), so as to include the          
described parcel of land in City Block 1971;     
and containing an emergency clause.              
         BOARD BILL NO. 49                       
           Introduced By                         
       Alderman Thomas Villa                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the             
Planning Commission on May 2, 2012, to           
change the zoning of property as indicated on    
the District Map, from "K" Unrestricted          
District and both "K" Unrestricted District      
& "J" Industrial District to the "J" Industrial  
District only, in City Blocks 3248, 3259 and     
3266 (316 E. Catalan, 8718 S. Broadway &         
416 E. Catalan), so as to include the described  
parcels of land in City Blocks 3248, 3259 and    
3266; and containing an emergency clause.        
     Any person wishing to speak for or          
against the above cited board bills should be    
present.                                         
      Sincerely,                                 
      Donna A. Booker                            
      Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen         
 INVITATIONTO BID                                   
  Board of Police Commissioners                     
  Metropolitan Police Department                    
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                    
     630-012004 - Lawn Care Services                
       Sealed bids of the above will be received    
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police               
 Department, Office of the Director of              
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.        
 local time, Friday, June 1, 2012 when they         
 will be opened publicly and announced.             
 Official bid forms on which bids must be           
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of       
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective          
 bidders upon request in person or by               
 telephone during regular business hours.           
       Contractor shall not discriminate in         
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,        
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against       
 any employee or applicant for employment           
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national     
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient          
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the           
 contract, and the Board of Police                  
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan        
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover     
 any damages resulting from termination.            
       The Board of Police Commissioners            
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and    
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also         
 reserves the right to consider criteria other      
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.       
 Among other factors, the Board will consider       
 the location of the business, minority interest    
 in the business, prior performance and the bid     
 submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
 Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
       Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
 Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
 associated Regulations could apply to the          
 service for which bids are being sought herein.    
 This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
 exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
 work pursuant to a contract executed between       
 the successful bidder and the City must be         
 paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
 rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
 of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
 applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
 Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
 Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
 with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
 with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
 A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
 the contract provisions related to the Living      
 Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
 the contract and the imposition of additional      
 penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
 Regulations.                                   
       Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations  
 are available upon request from Carol Shepard, 
 at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at          
 http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.         
      Bidders are also advised that the State   
 of Missouri requires workers on all public     
 works projects to be paid prevailing wages.    
 The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the   
 contracting public body of $100 per day (or    
 portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
 the prevailing rate for any work done under    
 the contract by the contractor or by any       
 subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).        
 Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid  
 please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.  
 Email must include vendor's company            
 name, address, and description of bid.         
      Purchasing Division                       
      PHONE# 314-444-5608                       
 INVITATIONTO BID                               
  Board of Police Commissioners                 
  Metropolitan Police Department                
     City of St. Louis, Missouri                
            720-12-0083 -                       
  Mondo Sportflex Flooring (gym track)          
       Sealed bids of the above will be received
 at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police           
 Department, Office of the Director of          
 Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,       
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.    
 local time, Friday, June 8, 2012 when they     
 will be opened publicly and announced.         
 Official bid forms on which bids must be       
 submitted may be obtained from the Office of   
 the Director of Purchasing by prospective      
 bidders upon request in person or by           
 telephone during regular business hours.       
       Contractor shall not discriminate in     
 matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,    
 rates of pay selection or otherwise, against   
 any employee or applicant for employment       
 because of race, creed, color, sex or national 
 origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient      
 cause to reject any bid or terminate the       
 contract, and the Board of Police              
 Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan    
 Police Department shall be entitled to recover 
 any damages resulting from termination.        
       The Board of Police Commissioners        
 reserves the right to waive any formalities and
 to reject any and all bids. The Board also     
 reserves the right to consider criteria other  
 than the low bid in the award of a contract.   
 Among other factors, the Board will consider   
 the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid     
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.      
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.              
      Bidders are hereby advised that the St.      
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and             
associated Regulations could apply to the          
service for which bids are being sought herein.    
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific      
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform      
work pursuant to a contract executed between       
the successful bidder and the City must be         
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage       
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term    
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,         
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.    
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage           
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration          
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration   
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.  
A successful bidder's failure to comply with       
the contract provisions related to the Living      
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of        
the contract and the imposition of additional      
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and          
Regulations.                                       
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations      
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,     
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at              
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.             
     Bidders are also advised that the State       
of Missouri requires workers on all public         
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.        
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the       
contracting public body of $100 per day (or        
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than    
the prevailing rate for any work done under        
the contract by the contractor or by any           
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).            
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid      
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.      
Email must include vendor's company                
name, address, and description of bid.             
     Purchasing Division                           
     PHONE# 314-444-5608                           
     CITY OF ST. LOUIS                             
    LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                              
 INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                          
 Request For Proposal (RFP)                        
   for Development of a                            
Public Access Compressed                           
    Natural Gas (CNG)                              
        Fuel Station                               
  PROPOSALS WANTED                                 
   Proposal documents may be obtained at           
Lambert St. Louis International Airport(R) -       
 Airport Properties Division, Monday            
 through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00      
 p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8184. This RFP   
 may also be obtained by visiting our website   
 at www.flystl.com (Click on "Business").       
              Robert Salarano                   
    Airport Properties Division Manager         
      CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
     LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS                          
  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT(R)                      
 Solicitation For Bids (SFB) for                
   Security Checkpoint Bin                      
     Advertising Broker                         
        Concession                              
       BIDS WANTED                              
       Bidding documents may be obtained at     
 Lambert St. Louis International Airport(R) -   
 Airport Properties Division, Monday            
 through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00      
 p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8184. This SFB   
 may also be obtained by visiting our website   
 at www.flystl.com (Click on "Business").       
              Robert Salarano                   
    Airport Properties Division Manager         
 ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE                
 LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN                
         NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS                    
          LIVING WAGE RATES                     
         EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2012                
 In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the    
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance                
 ("Ordinance") and the Regulations associated   
 therewith, the City Compliance Official for    
 the City of St. Louis has determined that the  
 following living wage rates are now in effect  
 for employees of covered contracts:            
    1)   Where health benefits as defined in    
         the Ordinance are provided to the      
         employee, the living wage rate is      
         $11.93 per hour (130% of the federal   
         poverty level income guideline for a   
         family of three); and                  
    2)   Where health benefits as defined in    
         the Ordinance are not provided to      
         the employee, the living wage rate is  
         $15.52 per hour (130% of the federal   
         poverty level income guideline for a   
         family of three, plus fringe benefit   
         rates as defined in the Ordinance).    
     3)      Wages required under Chapter 6.20                    
             of the Revised Code of the City of                   
             St. Louis: $3.59 per hour.                           
 These rates are based upon federal poverty                       
 level income guidelines as defined in the                        
 Ordinance and these rates are effective as of                    
 April 1, 2012. These rates will be further                       
 adjusted periodically when the federal poverty                   
 level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.                   
 Department of Health and Human Services or                       
 pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code                     
 of the City of St. Louis.                                        
 The Ordinance applies to employers who are                       
 covered by the Ordinance as defined in the                       
 Ordinance, where the contract or grant is                        
 entered into or renewed after the effective date                 
 of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.                     
 A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online                     
 at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or                            
 obtained from:                                                   
           City Compliance Official                               
   Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)                     
     Certification and Compliance Office                          
                P.O. Box 10212                                    
             St. Louis, Mo 63145                                  
                C314) 426-8111                                    
 Dated: February 17, 2012                                         
 DEPARTMENT OF                                                    
  PERSONNEL                                                       
       NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                                     
      The City of St. Louis, Department of                        
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,                         
 announces competitive Civil Service                              
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal                  
 Service.                                                         
       The last date for filing an application for                
 the following examination is JUNE 1, 2012.                       
        PAYROLL SPECIALIST II                                     
                 Prom. 1909                                       
      (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                                     
            EMPLOYEES ONLY)                                       
  $30,394 to $45,058 (Annual Salary Range)                        
 _________________________________________________________________
       The last date for filing an application for                
 the following examinations is JUNE 8, 2012.                      
  HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR I                                      
              Prom./O.C. 1797                                     
  $27,924 to $41,418 (Annual Salary Range)                        
   MEDICAL SERVICE COORDINATOR                                    
              Prom./O.C. 1907                                     
  $41,730 to $62,088 (Annual Salary Range)                        
       SPECIALIST ON AGING I                                        must be paid a minimum of the applicable         
             Prom./O.C. 1908                                        Living Wage rates set forth in the attached      
 $36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)                           Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are      
_________________________________________________________________   adjusted during the term of the contract         
                                                                    pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates      
     Applications for the following                                                                                  
examination will be accepted until a sufficient                     after such adjustment is made. Each bidder       
number are received to fill the anticipated                         [proponent] must submit the attached "Living     
vacancies. Please submit application as soon                        Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance               
as possible.                                                        Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure    
                                                                    to submit this Declaration with the bid          
     ASSISTANT MECHANICAL                                                                                            
                                                                    [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid   
     MAINTENANCE WORKER                                                                                              
                                                                    [proposal]. A successful bidder 's               
            Prom./O.C.C. 1906                                                                                        
$25,714 to $38,038 (Annual Salary Range)                            [proponent's] failure to comply with contract    
                                                                    provisions related to the Living Wage            
                                                                    Ordinance may result in termination of the       
     Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,                             contract and the imposition of additional        
Social Security, and Employee Retirement                                                                             
                                                                    penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and      
System Benefits privileges are provided in                                                                           
                                                                    Regulations.                                     
addition to salary.                                                                                                  
                                                                         Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
      Application forms and further                                                                                  
                                                                    are available upon request from La Queta         
information concerning duties of positions,                                                                          
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative                    Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be     
weights of examination components, and                              accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living          
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the                    wage.                                            
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114                                                                          
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO                                                                                
63101. Applications can be submitted on the                                                                          
Internet. Visit the City web site at                                                                                 
                                                                       SUPPLY                                        
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.                      COMMISSIONER                                     
                       Richard R. Frank,                            Office of the Supply Commissioner,               
                       Director                                     Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,         
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,              
May 23, 2012                                                        MAY 29, 2012 - INFORMAL and                      
                                                                    ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the          
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                                               undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00  
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any                               o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the  
individual or company who performs work                             dates specified.                                 
within the City limits must obtain a Business                                                                        
License. This would also apply to businesses                            THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2012                      
who employ sales or delivery personnel to                                                                            
                                                                        BID PROPOSAL FOR SALT,                       
come into the City. Contracts requiring work                                                                         
to be performed in the City will NOT be                                 SNOW AND ICE CONTROL                         
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                                   for a period of two years from July 15, 2012     
                                                                    thru July 14, 2014. (BF)                         
ST. LOUIS LIVING                                                         Notice to All Suppliers                     
WAGE ORDINANCE                                                            It is the policy of the City of St. Louis  
                                                                    that all firms desiring to do business with the  
   LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          
                                                                    City of St. Louis must comply with               
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that                                                                         
                                                                    employment practices that are in accordance      
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597                                                                           
                                                                    with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis     
and associated Regulations apply to the                                                                              
                                                                    and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated      
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial                                                                         
                                                                    there-under to the end that all Contractors      
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are                                                                         
                                                                    and suppliers of materials and services will     
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires                        offer equal opportunity for employment and       
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all                         job advancement to blacks and other minority     
individuals who perform work pursuant to a                          groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.       
contract executed between the successful                                                                             
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]                                                                           
                                                                                 Obtaining Bids                      
                                                                            To download bids log on to:              
  http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm 
 then, search available bids.                  
     You may also contact the Supply           
 Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or    
 e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com          
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
           Recycled Products                   
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
            Surplus Property                   
      Notice is hereby given that the City of  
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale  
 during the course of the year. The property   
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the   
 City Journal.                                 
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis-mo.gov            
  http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm 
 then, search available bids.                  
     You may also contact the Supply           
 Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or    
 e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com          
       Bidders are invited to be present at the
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available 
 30 days following the date of bid opening.    
 If you desire bid results, please include a   
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid. 
           Recycled Products                   
      The City of St. Louis desires to         
 purchase recycled products whenever           
 possible, especially items containing post    
 consumer waste materials. If your company     
 can supply recycled products, please provide  
 information to this office.                   
            Surplus Property                   
      Notice is hereby given that the City of  
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale  
 during the course of the year. The property   
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the   
 City Journal.                                 
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved.                                     
                 Freddie L. Dunlap             
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis-mo.gov            
