       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
      JOURNAL                     
       OF THE                     
  Board of                        
  Aldermen                        
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
      REGULAR                     
       SESSION                    
      2012-2013                   
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
  Friday, December 14, 2012.      
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen      
 Chambers December 14, 2012.                  
      The roll was called and the following   
 Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,    
 Flowers, Moore, Hubbard, Young, Conway,      
 Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels,  
 Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis,    
 Schmid, French, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,      
 Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President    
 Reed. 25                                     
      "Almighty God, source of all authority, 
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations  
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."        
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                       
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                   
      None.                                   
          INTRODUCTION OF                     
          HONORED GUESTS                      
      None.                                   
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                    
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                    
     Mr. Wessels moved to approve the         
 minutes for November 30, 2012.               
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.               
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                  
         Report of the Clerk                  
     of the Board of Aldermen                 
      To the President of the Board of        
 Aldermen:                                    
      I wish to report that on the 14th day of
December, 2012, I delivered to the Office of      
the Mayor of the City of St. Louis the            
following board bills that were truly agreed to   
and finally adopted.                              
           Board Bill No. 202                     
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling     
on McMillan Avenue at Marcus Avenue and           
containing an emergency clause.                   
           Board Bill No. 203                     
     An Ordinance directing the Director of       
Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or       
otherwise impede the flow of traffic on           
College Avenue at the west curb line of Carter    
Avenue and containing an emergency clause.        
           Board Bill No. 204                     
       An Ordinance, recommended by the           
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis  
(the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a   
public works and improvement project for          
the design and construction of various roadway    
infrastructure improvements on Skinker            
Boulevard between Clayton Road and Clayton        
Avenue, and Oakland Avenue between Skinker        
Boulevard and Hampton Avenue (the                 
"Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway            
Improvement Project"); and authorizing and        
directing the City of St. Louis (the "City"),     
by and through its Board of Public Service, to    
let contracts and provide for the design,         
construction, materials, and equipment for the    
Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway             
Improvement Project, authorizing the Board        
of Public Service to employ labor and             
consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,        
acquire any and all said real and personal        
property rights and interests, in whole or in     
part, including easements (by lease, purchase,    
eminent domain, condemnation, or otherwise),      
as necessary for completion of the Skinker,       
Clayton, and Oakland Roadway Improvement          
Project, and to enter into supplemental           
agreements with the Missouri Highway and          
Transportation Commission, Federal                
Highway Administration, utilities, railroads,     
and other governmental agencies for the           
Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway             
Improvement Project all in accordance with        
the federal Transportation Equity Act for the     
21st Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with       
any contract containing sections for:             
description of the work, material guarantees,     
estimated expenditure allocations, fund           
reversion authorization, applicable federal and   
state wage rate requirements, equal               
opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's              
Executive Orders, and contract advertising        
statutes; requiring that all work provided for    
herein shall be carried out in accordance with    
detailed plans and specifications adopted and     
approved by the Board of Public Service before    
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all  
 construction contracts let by authority of this   
 Ordinance provide for federal and state           
 prevailing wage requirements including            
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and      
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the    
 State of Missouri (Sections 290.210 through       
 290.340 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri       
 2000, as amended), the City Charter and the       
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;             
 requiring all specifications approved by the      
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by      
 authority of this Ordinance provide for:          
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders      
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/             
 WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when            
 superseded or prohibited by federal or state      
 law or regulation; contractor's compliance        
 with the provisions of Sections 285.525           
 through 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of        
 Missouri 2000, as amended, by requiring           
 enrollment and participation in a federal work    
 authorization program and no knowing              
 employment of unauthorized aliens;                
 contractor's compliance with the provisions       
 of Section 292.675 of the Revised Statutes of     
 Missouri 2000, as amended, by providing a         
 ten-hour Occupational Safety and Health           
 Administration construction safety program        
 for their on-site employees; contractor's         
 compliance with the provisions of Section         
 34.057 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri        
 2000, as amended, (Prompt Payment/                
 Retainage), as applicable; requiring the          
 furnishing of a bond by every contractor on       
 this public works project pursuant to the         
 provisions of Section 107.170 of the Revised      
 Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended;            
 compliance with Section 34.353 of the Revised     
 Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended             
 (Domestic Product Procurement Act - Buy           
 American); requiring all advertisements for       
 bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject to     
 the provisions of Section 8.250 of the Revised    
 Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended; and        
 appropriating the total estimated cost of the     
 Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway             
 Improvement Project of One Million, Nine          
 Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars                   
 ($1,990,000.00) from various sources              
 including the Federal Highway Administration      
 Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient            
 Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for           
 Users (SAFETEA-LU), One-Half Cent Ward            
 Capital Improvement Fund, and Forest Park         
 Bonds; authorizing and directing the              
 Comptroller of the City to draw warrants from     
 time to time and disburse funds appropriated      
 by this ordinance and to receive and disburse     
 grant funds in accordance with the                
 Transportation Equity Act of the 21st Century     
 (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the signature       
 and certification of vouchers by the President    
 of the Board of Public Service; and containing  
 a public work emergency clause.                 
            Board Bill No. 205                   
        An Ordinance, recommended by the         
 Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis
 (the "Board of Public Service"), establishing a 
 public works and improvement project for        
 the design and construction of the second       
 phase of the Dr. Martin Luther King             
 Pedestrian Lighting Project involving           
 infrastructure improvements on Dr. Martin       
 Luther King Drive from Arlington Avenue to      
 Kingshighway Boulevard (the "Dr. Martin         
 Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project"); and  
 authorizing and directing the City of St. Louis 
 (the "City"), by and through its Board of       
 Public Service, to let contracts and provide    
 for the design, construction, materials, and    
 equipment for the Dr. Martin Luther King        
 Pedestrian Lighting Project, authorizing the    
 Board of Public Service to employ labor and     
 consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,      
 acquire any and all said real and personal      
 property rights and interests, in whole or in   
 part, including easements (by lease, purchase,  
 eminent domain, condemnation, or otherwise),    
 as necessary for completion of the Dr. Martin   
 Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project, and    
 to enter into supplemental agreements with      
 the Missouri Highway and Transportation         
 Commission,           Federal        Highway    
 Administration, utilities, railroads, and other 
 governmental agencies for the Dr. Martin        
 Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project all in  
 accordance with the federal Transportation      
 Equity Act for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.      
 110, et seq.), with any contract containing     
 sections for: description of the work, material 
 guarantees, estimated expenditure allocations,  
 fund reversion authorization, applicable        
 federal and state wage rate requirements, equal 
 opportunity provisions, the Mayor 's            
 Executive Orders, and contract advertising      
 statutes; requiring that all work provided for  
 herein shall be carried out in accordance with  
 detailed plans and specifications adopted and   
 approved by the Board of Public Service before  
 bids are advertised therefor; directing that all
 construction contracts let by authority of this 
 Ordinance provide for federal and state         
 prevailing wage requirements including          
 prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and    
 compliance with all applicable statutes of the  
 State of Missouri (Sections 290.210 through     
 290.340 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri     
 2000, as amended), the City Charter and the     
 Revised Code of the City, as amended;           
 requiring all specifications approved by the    
 Board of Public Service and contracts let by    
 authority of this Ordinance provide for:        
 compliance with the Mayor's Executive Orders    
 on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/           
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when           
superseded or prohibited by federal or state     
law or regulation; contractor's compliance       
with the provisions of Sections 285.525          
through 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of       
Missouri 2000, as amended, by requiring          
enrollment and participation in a federal work   
authorization program and no knowing             
employment of unauthorized aliens;               
contractor's compliance with the provisions      
of Section 292.675 of the Revised Statutes of    
Missouri 2000, as amended, by providing a        
ten-hour Occupational Safety and Health          
Administration construction safety program       
for their on-site employees; contractor's        
compliance with the provisions of Section        
34.057 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri       
2000, as amended, (Prompt Payment/               
Retainage), as applicable; requiring the         
furnishing of a bond by every contractor on      
this public works project pursuant to the        
provisions of Section 107.170 of the Revised     
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended;           
compliance with Section 34.353 of the Revised    
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended            
(Domestic Product Procurement Act - Buy          
American); requiring all advertisements for      
bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject to    
the provisions of Section 8.250 of the Revised   
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended; and       
appropriating the total estimated cost of the    
Dr. Martin Luther King Pedestrian Lighting       
Project of Nine Hundred Twenty Thousand          
Dollars ($920,000.00) from various sources       
including the Federal Highway Administration     
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient           
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for          
Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half             
Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;              
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of     
the City to draw warrants from time to time      
and disburse funds appropriated by this          
ordinance and to receive and disburse grant      
funds in accordance with the Transportation      
Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.        
110, et seq.) upon the signature and             
certification of vouchers by the President of    
the Board of Public Service; and containing a    
public work emergency clause.                    
           Board Bill No. 216                    
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for  
all northbound and southbound traffic            
traveling on Arendes Drive at Dover Place        
and establishing a stop site for all eastbound   
traffic traveling on Dover Place at Arendes      
Drive causing it to be a three way stop          
intersection and containing an emergency         
clause.                                          
           Board Bill No. 219                    
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for  
all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling    
 on Scanlan Avenue at Leola Avenue and            
 containing an emergency clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 220                    
      An ordinance establishing a stop site for   
 all northbound and southbound traffic            
 traveling on Tamm Avenue at Smiley Avenue        
 and containing an emergency clause.              
            Board Bill No. 227                    
       An ordinance establishing a stop site for  
 all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling    
 on Juniata Street at Clifton Avenue and          
 containing an emergency clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 226                    
       An Ordinance directing the Director of     
 Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or      
 otherwise impede the flow of traffic on Primm    
 Lane by blocking said traffic flow at the west   
 curb lane of Stolle Street.                      
            Board Bill No. 198                    
            (Floor Substitute)                    
       An ordinance, recommended by the           
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,             
 pertaining to the real property located at One   
 North Jefferson Avenue (the "Development         
 Area"); establishing an earnings and payroll     
 tax reimbursement account in support of the      
 development described herein; making             
 findings with respect to such development;       
 approving a Development Agreement for such       
 development and authorizing the execution        
 thereof; and authorizing certain actions by      
 City officials.                                  
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                     
      Board of Aldermen                           
           Office of the Mayor                    
 City of St. Louis                                
 Room 200 City Hall                               
 1200 Market Street                               
 St. Louis, MO 63103                              
 (314) 622-3201                                   
 December 14, 2012                                
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                      
 Room 230 City Hall                               
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                        
 Dear Members of the Board:                       
      I have the pleasure to submit the           
 following individuals for reappointment to the   
 Airport Arts Advisory Committee:                 
      The reappointment of Ms. Marilu             
 Knode, who resides at 6803 Kingsbury Blvd.       
 #3E, 63130 and whose term will expire on         
 December 10, 2016.                               
      The reappointment of Ms. Laura Helling,     
 who resides at 920 Devonshire Ln., 63301         
 and whose term will expire on December 10,       
 2016.                                            
      I respectfully request your approval of 
 these appointments.                          
      Sincerely,                              
      FRANCIS G. SLAY                         
      Mayor                                   
      Mr. Kennedy moved to approve moved      
 to approve the following individuals for     
 reappointment to the Airport Arts Advisory   
 Committee: Marilu Knode and Laura Helling.   
      Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.                
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.      
 City of St. Louis                            
 Room 200 City Hall                           
 1200 Market Street                           
 St. Louis, MO 63103                          
 (314) 622-3201                               
 December 14, 2012                            
 Honorable Board of Aldermen                  
 Room 230 City Hall                           
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103                    
 Dear Members of the Board:                   
      I have the pleasure to submit the       
 following individuals for appointment to the 
 HIV Planning Council:                        
      The reappointment of Mr. Dushon         
 Brent, who resides at 4924 Finkman #1E,      
 63109 and whose term will expire on          
 September 30, 2014.                          
      The reappointment of Mr. Lawrence       
 Mayhew, who resides at 4171 Oleatha Ave.,    
 63116 and whose term will expire on          
 September 30, 2014.                          
      The reappointment of Ms. Stephanie      
 Schmidt, who resides at 636 Cleveland Ave.,  
 63122 and whose term will expire on          
 September 30, 2014.                          
      The reappointment of Mr. Michael        
 Cutts, who resides at 826 Sycamore St., 62220
 and whose term will expire on September 30,  
 2014.                                        
      The reappointment of Mr. Johnnie        
 Jones, who resides at 4451 Forest Park Blvd. 
 #1017, 63108 and whose term will expire on   
 September 30, 2014.                          
      The appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Marast,  
 who resides at 525 W. Jefferson, 1st Floor,  
 62761 and whose term will expire on          
 September 30, 2014.                          
     The appointment of Ms. Abby Olson,       
 who resides at 3117 Olive St., 63103 and     
 whose term will expire on September 30, 2014.
      The appointment of Ms. Deborah Kay      
 Ingram, who resides at 7114 Groveland Dr.,   
 63121 and whose term will expire on          
 September 30, 2014.                          
     The appointment of Mr. Milton L.           
Butler, who resides at 1424 Asmherst, 63112     
and whose term will expire on September 30,     
2014.                                           
     The reappointment of Mr. John E.           
Brewer, who resides at 3436 Chippewa, 63118     
and whose term will expire on September 30,     
2014.                                           
     I respectfully request your approval of    
these appointments.                             
     Sincerely,                                 
     FRANCIS G. SLAY                            
     Mayor                                      
      Mr. Conway moved to approve the           
following the following individuals for         
appointment to the HIV Planning Council:        
Dushon Brent, Lawrence Mayhew, Stephanie        
Schmidt, Michael Cutts, Johnnie Jones,          
Jeffrey Maras, Abby Olson and Deborah Kay       
Ingram, Milton L. Butler and John E. Brewer.    
     Seconded by Ms. Florida.                   
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                      
     None.                                      
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
   - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
      None.                                     
         BOARD BILLS FOR                        
          THIRD READING                         
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                       
      Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and   
final passage of Board Bill No. 109 (Floor      
Substitute).                                    
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
     Carried by the following vote:             
     Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Hubbard,            
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Villa, Wessels,         
Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Davis, Schmid,        
Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson and Krewson. 17       
     Noes: Moore, Vollmer, Arnowitz,            
Kennedy, French, Vaccaro, Carter and            
President Reed. 8                               
     Present: 0                                 
         Board Bill No. 109                     
       (Committee Substitute)                   
      An Ordinance amending the Firefighters'   
Retirement Plan of the City of St. Louis;       
providing additional cost of living increases   
for firefighters disabled because of an injury  
incurred while fighting a fire.                 
           RESOLUTIONS                          
      - INFORMAL CALENDAR                       
     None.                                      
           FIRST READING                      
           OF BOARD BILLS                     
 Board Member Flowers introduced by           
 request:                                     
           Board Bill No. 260                 
      An Ordinance directing the Director of  
 Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or  
 otherwise impede the flow of traffic at      
 Northcrest Lane at the south curb line of    
 Goodfellow Boulevard and containing an       
 emergency clause.                            
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                    
        OF BOARD BILLS                        
         Convention and Tourism               
                  None.                       
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions         
                 None.                        
       Health and Human Services              
                 None.                        
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning          
                None.                         
        Intergovernmental Affairs             
                  None.                       
                Legislation                   
                  None.                       
      Neighborhood Development                
                 None.                        
    Parks and Environmental Matters           
                 None.                        
      Personnel and Administration            
                 None.                        
             Public Employees                 
                   None.                      
               Public Safety                  
                  None.                       
              Public Utilities                
                  None.                       
        Streets, Traffic and Refuse           
            Board Bill No. 260.               
      Transportation and Commerce             
                  None.                       
             Ways and Means                   
                 None.                        
 SECOND READING AND REPORT                    
   OF STANDING COMMITTEES                     
       Mr. Wessels of the Committee on        
 Housing, Urban Development and Zoning        
 submitted the following report which was     
 read.                                        
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,      
 December 14, 2012.                           
      To the President of the Board of        
 Aldermen:                                    
     The Committee on Housing, Urban          
 Development and Zoning to whom was           
 referred the following Board Bills, report that
 they have considered the same and recommend    
 adoption.                                      
            Board Bill No. 235                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the          
 Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated  
 on the District Map, from "C" Multiple-        
 Family Dwelling District to the "F"            
 Neighborhood Commercial District, in City      
 Block 4837 (5012, 5014 & 5016 Enright), so     
 as to include the described parcels of land in 
 City Block 4837; and containing an emergency   
 clause.                                        
            Board Bill No. 236                  
       An Ordinance recommended by the          
 Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,       
 to change the zoning of property as indicated  
 on the District Map, from "B" Two-Family       
 Dwelling District and "H" Area Commercial      
 District to the "H" Area Commercial District   
 only, in City Block 1495 (3522 Utah and 3521,  
 3523, 3527 & 3529-41 McKean), so as to         
 include the described parcels of land in City  
 Block 1495; and containing an emergency        
 clause.                                        
            Board Bill No. 251                  
      An Ordinance designating a portion of     
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a           
 redevelopment area known as the Northeast      
 Hampton Berthold Redevelopment Area            
 pursuant to the Real Property Tax Increment    
 Allocation Redevelopment Act; approving a      
 redevelopment plan and a redevelopment         
 project with respect thereto; adopting tax     
 increment financing within the redevelopment   
 area; making findings with respect thereto;    
 establishing the Northeast Hampton Berthold    
 Special Allocation Fund; authorizing certain   
 actions by City officials; and containing a    
 severability clause.                           
            Board Bill No. 252                  
       An Ordinance affirming adoption of a     
 redevelopment plan, redevelopment area, and    
 redevelopment project; authorizing the         
 execution of redevelopment agreement           
 between the City of St. Louis and Tri-Star     
 Imports, Inc.; prescribing the form and details
 of said agreement; designating Tri-Star        
 Imports, Inc. as developer of the              
 redevelopment area; making certain findings    
 with respect thereto; authorizing other related
 actions in connection with the redevelopment   
 of certain property within the redevelopment   
 area; and containing a severability clause.    
      Alderman Wessels                          
      Chairman of the Committee                 
       Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,  
 Traffic and Refuse submitted the following     
report which was read.                            
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
December 14, 2012.                                
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
      The Committee on Streets, Traffic and       
Refuse to whom was referred the following         
Board Bills, report that they have considered     
the same and recommend adoption.                  
           Board Bill No. 233                     
     An Ordinance establishing a four way         
stop site at the intersection of Logan Street     
and Lowell Street by regulating all eastbound     
and westbound traffic traveling on Logan          
Street at Lowell Street and regulating all        
northbound and southbound traffic traveling       
on Lowell Street at Logan Street and              
containing an emergency clause.                   
           Board Bill No. 247                     
      An ordinance establishing a four way        
stop site at the intersection of McNair Avenue    
and Victor Street by regulating all north-south   
traffic traveling on McNair Avenue                
approaching such intersection and containing      
an emergency clause.                              
     Alderman Bosley                              
     Chairman of the Committee                    
     Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on              
Transportation and Commerce submitted the         
following report which was read.                  
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,           
December 14, 2012.                                
     To the President of the Board of             
Aldermen:                                         
     The Committee on Transportation and          
Commerce to whom was referred the                 
following Board Bills, report that they have      
considered the same and recommend adoption.       
           Board Bill No. 195                     
      An Ordinance recommended by the             
Board of Estimate and Apportionment               
authorizing and directing the Director of         
Airports and the Comptroller of The City of       
St. Louis (the "City") to enter into and execute  
on behalf of the City the "First Amendment        
To East Terminal Agency Agreement" (the           
"First Amendment") to the Lambert-St. Louis       
International Airport(R) East Terminal Agency     
Agreement AL-446 between the City and             
Airport Terminal Services, Inc., dated            
December 27, 2007, and authorized by City         
Ordinance No. 67787, approved November            
30, 2007 (the "Agreement"); the First             
Amendment, which is attached hereto as            
ATTACHMENT "1" and made a part hereof,            
was approved by the City's Airport                
Commission, and its terms are more fully          
 described in Section One of this Ordinance;       
 containing a severability clause; and containing  
 an emergency clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 196                     
       An Ordinance recommended and                
 approved by the Board of Estimate and             
 Apportionment authorizing and directing the       
 Director of Airports and the Comptroller of       
 The City of St. Louis, Missouri (the "City")      
 to enter into and execute on behalf of the City   
 a Service Agreement for Solid Waste Disposal      
 & Recycling Services at Lambert-St. Louis         
 International Airport(R) (the "Airport") with     
 a five (5) year term commencing on March 1,       
 2013 and ending on February 28, 2018 (the         
 "Agreement"), between the City and Allied         
 Services, LLC, a limited liability corporation    
 of the State of Delaware, doing business as       
 Republic Services (the "Contractor"),             
 providing for the disposal and recycling of       
 solid waste for the Airport subject to and in     
 accordance with provisions of the Agreement,      
 which was awarded to the Contractor and           
 approved by the City's Airport Commission,        
 and is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT              
 "1" and made a part hereof; containing a          
 severability clause; and containing an            
 emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 197                     
       An Ordinance, recommended and               
 approved by the Airport Commission, the           
 Board of Public Service, and the Board of         
 Estimate and Apportionment, establishing and      
 authorizing a public works and improvement        
 program (the "Building & Environs Projects")      
 at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)     
 (the "Airport"), consisting of capital            
 improvement projects to and for the terminal      
 complexes, concourses, parking facilities,        
 roadways and associated Airport buildings,        
 structures, and facilities, roadways, driveways   
 and environs, and other associated Airport        
 improvements as more fully described in the       
 attached EXHIBIT A, entitled "PROJECT             
 LIST" that is incorporated herein, such           
 authorization including, without limitation,      
 engineering planning and designing services,      
 programming services, technical advice and        
 assistance, inspection services, surveying and    
 mapping services, appraisal services, legal       
 services and related costs, CADD services,        
 the removal or relocation of structures,          
 obstructions, utilities, equipment, and related   
 work, grading and landscaping costs and           
 related work, security services, relocation       
 costs, transportation costs, remediation costs    
 and related work, the demolition of               
 improvements, the costs for the repair,           
 renovation, or relocation of Airport              
 improvements including fixtures and               
 equipment, architectural, engineering and         
 related consultant and management expense         
 pertaining to the planning, design, consulting,  
 installing mock-ups, the preparation and         
 production of contract documents,                
 solicitations, bill of sale, or other agreements 
 or documents, or the advertising and taking of   
 bids, architect and design services, costs for   
 structural and maintenance studies, estimating   
 and cost benefit consulting services, general    
 engineering services, consulting services and    
 other technical advice and assistance,           
 construction management, construction,           
 installation, renovation, rehabilitations,       
 repairs, expansion, reconfiguration,             
 improvement, and inspection work, the            
 equipping and furnishing of Airport property     
 including, without limitation, aircraft rescue   
 firefighter vehicles, runway brooms, supplies,   
 materials and equipment, and other necessary     
 and related work or services for the             
 development, construction, installation,         
 implementation, administration, management       
 or monitoring of the Building & Environs         
 Projects at a total estimated cost of Four       
 Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars       
 ($4,250,000); authorizing an initial             
 appropriation in the total amount of Four        
 Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars       
 ($4,250,000) from the Airport Development        
 Fund established under authority of Ordinance    
 59286, Section 13, approved October 26,          
 1984, to be expended for the payment of costs    
 for work and services authorized herein;         
 authorizing the Mayor and the Comptroller        
 of The City of St. Louis ("City") to enter into  
 and execute on behalf of the City easement       
 agreements granting such easements or right-     
 of-ways as are necessary to the administration   
 or implementation of the Building & Environs     
 Projects and containing such terms, covenants,   
 and conditions that are in the best interest of  
 the City, the City's residents, and the traveling
 public; authorizing the Director of Airports     
 with the approval of the Airport Commission      
 and the Board of Estimate and                    
 Apportionment to let contracts providing for     
 mapping, appraisal, and escrow services, title   
 work, ground maintenance, security services,     
 legal services, and other related services for   
 the implementation and administration of the     
 Building & Environs Projects; authorizing and    
 directing the Board of Public Service with the   
 advice, consent, and approval of the Director    
 of Airports to let contracts for all other       
 approved work or services, purchase              
 materials, supplies, and equipment, employ       
 labor, pay salaries, wages, fees, retain         
 consultants and otherwise provide for the        
 work or services authorized herein; providing    
 that any contract let hereunder, shall be subject
 to the City's Charter and applicable City        
 ordinances and Missouri State laws or            
 regulations applicable thereto; authorizing and  
 directing the Comptroller of the City to draw    
warrants from time to time on the Treasury         
of the City for payment of expenses                
authorized herein upon submission of               
properly certified vouchers in conformance         
with procedures established by the                 
Comptroller and, authorizing, as necessary         
and appropriate, the Comptroller, Treasurer,       
City Counselor, and other appropriate officers,    
agents and employees of the City to make           
such applications or certifications and provide    
such data to the appropriate parties, and to       
take whatever action necessary in order to         
provide for the payment or reimbursement of        
eligible costs authorized herein; authorizing      
the Director of Airports to make such              
applications and provide such data and to take     
whatever action necessary to seek funds under      
the Airport Improvement Program, the               
Passenger Facility Charge Program or other         
federal, state or local programs for projects      
herein authorized where such costs or              
expenditures are deemed eligible and monies        
made available for those costs under federal,      
state, or local law or contract, and to authorize  
the deposit of such funds as may be                
appropriate into this Ordinance to reimburse       
or pay in part for the costs of the Building &     
Environs Projects herein authorized; directing     
that all contracts let under authority of this     
Ordinance be in compliance with all applicable     
minority and women or disadvantaged                
business enterprise requirements and in            
compliance with all applicable federal, state,     
and local laws, ordinances, regulations, court     
decisions and executive orders relating to equal   
employment opportunity; and containing a           
severability and an emergency clause.              
           Board Bill No. 257                      
      An ordinance recommended and                 
approved by the Airport Commission, the            
Board of Public Service, and the Board of          
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing and         
directing the Comptroller, the City Counselor      
and the Director of Airports of The City of        
St. Louis, Missouri (the "City") to enter into,    
execute, and deliver on behalf of the City a       
Settlement Agreement substantially in the form     
as set out in ATTACHMENT 1 to this                 
Ordinance (the "Settlement Agreement"),            
which is attached hereto and incorporated          
herein, between the City, the owner and            
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International        
Airport(R) (the "Airport") and American            
Airlines, Inc., a Delaware corporation             
("American"), providing for a comprehensive        
resolution of all matters and controversies,       
including all lease, debt, and any and all other   
claims and issues arising under and related to     
certain agreements between the City and            
American which are part of American's              
Chapter 11 reorganization case and                 
proceedings commenced under Title 11 of the        
 United States Code on November 29, 2011,          
 which case is pending in the United States        
 Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District        
 of New York in an administratively                
 consolidated case entitled In re AMR              
 Corporation, et al., Chapter 11 Case No. 11-      
 15463 (SHL) (the "Bankruptcy Case"),              
 including, without limitation, certain            
 acknowledgements by the City and American,        
 administrative modifications, amendments,         
 and/or the assumption of certain agreements       
 between the City and American, the waiver         
 and/or release of certain rights and claims, and  
 the allowance and payment of certain claims,      
 all subject to and in accordance with the         
 provisions of the Settlement Agreement;           
 authorizing and directing the Director of         
 Airports, the President of the Board of Public    
 Service, and the Comptroller of the City, as      
 the case may be, to enter into, execute and       
 deliver on behalf of the City certain             
 amendments to agreements with American as         
 more fully described in Section Three of this     
 Ordinance; authorizing the Director of            
 Airports and the Comptroller, on behalf of        
 the City, with the advice and concurrence of      
 the City Counselor, to make such changes,         
 modifications, or amendments to the terms of      
 the Settlement Agreement and/or enter into,       
 execute and deliver such amendments to the        
 Settlement Agreement that may be deemed           
 necessary or desirable to preserve and protect    
 the City's interest, and deemed necessary or      
 appropriate in connection with the                
 Bankruptcy Case, and/or the consummation          
 of the transactions contemplated herein;          
 authorizing the Director of Airports and the      
 Comptroller of the City to negotiate, enter       
 into, execute, and deliver on behalf of the City  
 such agreements or instruments that may be        
 deemed necessary or desirable in order to         
 alienate or otherwise sell the City's "MOA        
 Unsecured Claim", as provided for in Section      
 Five of this Ordinance; authorizing the Mayor,    
 the Comptroller, the Treasurer, the City          
 Counselor, the Register, the President of the     
 Board of Public Service, the Director of          
 Airports, and other appropriate officers,         
 agents, and employees of the City, as the case    
 may be, with the advice and concurrence of        
 the Director of Airports and the City             
 Counselor to execute such documents and take      
 such action as are necessary or desirable in      
 connection with the Settlement Agreement,         
 the Bankruptcy Case, or deemed necessary          
 to preserve or protect the City's interest;       
 providing that the provisions set forth in this   
 Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to      
 this Ordinance and the Settlement Agreement       
 and amendments attached thereto and the           
 other agreements, documents, and instruments      
 referenced herein, related thereto, and           
 contemplated therein and/or approved and/or       
 authorized by this Ordinance; and containing   
 a severability clause.                         
            Board Bill No. 259                  
      An ordinance recommended by the Port      
 Authority Commission of the City of St.        
 Louis, repealing ordinance 68909, which        
 authorized an Option to Lease Agreement and    
 Lease Agreement between the City of St. Louis  
 ("City") and Grace Hill Settlement House       
 ("Grace Hill"), and enacting a new ordinance   
 authorizing and directing the Mayor and the    
 Comptroller to enter into a Lease Agreement    
 between the City and Great Rivers Greenway     
 District ("District") for certain land on the  
 Unimproved Wharf for a period of ten (10)      
 years commencing on the date of execution      
 with three (3) five-year (5-year) mutual       
 options, in substantially the form as Exhibit 1
 and Appendix A attached hereto and             
 incorporated by reference herein as Exhibit 1  
 and Appendix A.                                
      Alderman Kennedy                          
      Chairman of the Committee                 
      Mr. Roddy of the Committee on Parks       
 and Environmental Matters submitted the        
 following report which was read.               
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,        
 December 14, 2012.                             
      To the President of the Board of          
 Aldermen:                                      
      The Committee on Parks and                
 Environmental Matters to whom was referred     
 the following Board Bills, report that they    
 have considered the same and recommend         
 adoption.                                      
            Board Bill No. 97                   
    An ordinance enacting a curfew for Marie    
 Fowler Park and Phillip J. Lucier Park,        
 containing an exception for persons holding    
 permits, and containing an emergency clause.   
            Board Bill No. 258                  
       An ordinance relating to parks; imposing,
 under and by the authority of Sections         
 67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012),     
 subject to the approval of the voters, an      
 additional three-sixteenths of one cent sales  
 tax on all retail sales made in the City of St.
 Louis which are subject to taxation as provided
 for in Sections 144.010 to 144.525 and         
 67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo, for the purpose       
 of funding the operation and maintenance of    
 the Metropolitan Park and Recreation District  
 and parks owned by and located in the City     
 of St. Louis, in addition to any and all other 
 sales taxes allowed by law; submitting to the  
 qualified voters of the City of St. Louis a    
 proposal to approve this Ordinance; providing  
 for an election and the manner of voting       
thereat; providing that if such question shall     
receive the votes of a majority of the voter       
voting thereon that such tax shall be authorized   
and in effect as provided in Sections 67.1700      
to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012);                 
providing that the tax imposed pursuant to         
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be a tax    
on all retail sales made in the City of St. Louis  
which are subject to taxation under the            
provisions of Sections 144.010 to 144.525          
and 67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo; providing for         
the allocation of the proceeds of such tax to      
certain purposes; providing that certain real      
property previously designated as part of the      
Gateway Mall Master Plan shall instead be          
part of the projects funded by the portion of      
such proceeds applied by the Metropolitan          
Park and Recreation District pursuant to this      
Ordinance; and containing an interpretation        
clause, a severability clause and an emergency     
clause.                                            
     Alderman Roddy                                
     Chairman of the Committee                     
           REPORT OF                               
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                          
     None.                                         
           PERFECTION                              
        CONSENT CALENDAR                           
     Mr. Troupe requested that Board Bill          
No. 13 be placed on the Board Bills for            
Perfection - Informal Calendar.                    
      Mr. Wessels moved that the following         
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,       
be perfected as reported out of Committee          
with its recommendation "Do Pass": Board           
Bills No. 256, 249 (Committee Substitute)          
and 250.                                           
     Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                     
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                         
     None.                                         
      Mr. Moore moved to suspend the rules         
for the purpose of moving the following Board      
Bills to the third reading calendar for final      
passage: Board Bills No. 249 (Committee            
Substitute) and 250.                               
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                       
     Carried by the following vote:                
      Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Moore,                
Hubbard, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,          
Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, Florida, Baringer,       
Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,             
Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter,        
Krewson and President Reed. 25                     
     Noes: 0                                       
      Present: 0                                   
           THIRD READING                           
         CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and     
 final passage of Board Bills No. 222, 223,        
 224, 225, 159, 237, 199, 230, 243, 244, 214,      
 215, 229, 242, 232, 207, 208, 228, 179            
 (Committee Substitute), 238, 234, 155, 240,       
 209, 210, 249 (Committee Substitute) and 250.     
      Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                    
      Carried by the following vote:               
       Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Moore,               
 Hubbard, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,         
 Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, Florida, Baringer,      
 Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,            
 Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter,       
 Krewson and President Reed. 25                    
      Noes: 0                                      
      Present: 0                                   
            Board Bill No. 222                     
       An ordinance establishing the Forest        
 Park Southeast Special Business District          
 pursuant to Sections 71.790 through 71.808        
 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, setting      
 its boundaries, tax rate, initial rate of levy    
 subject to the approval of the qualified voters,  
 bonding authority, and uses to which tax          
 revenue may be put; creating a board of           
 commissioners; and containing severability,       
 effectiveness, and emergency clauses.             
            Board Bill No. 223                     
       An Ordinance submitting to the qualified    
 voters residing in the Forest Park Southeast      
 Special Business District Special Business        
 District as designated in Ordinance               
 No.____________, approved DATE (Board             
 Bill No. ___) a proposal to renew and continue    
 the levy a tax on the real property located in    
 said district; submitting said proposal to the    
 voters of said district at an Election on April   
 2, 2013; and containing an emergency clause.      
            Board Bill No. 224                     
       An ordinance establishing the Botanical     
 Heights West Special Business District            
 pursuant to Sections 71.790 through 71.808        
 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, setting      
 its boundaries, tax rate, initial rate of levy    
 subject to the approval of the qualified voters,  
 bonding authority, and uses to which tax          
 revenue may be put; creating a board of           
 commissioners; and containing severability,       
 effectiveness, and emergency clauses.             
            Board Bill No. 225                     
      An ordinance submitting to the qualified     
 voters residing in the Botanical Heights West     
 Special Business District Special Business        
 District as designated in Ordinance               
 No.____________, approved DATE (Board           
 Bill No. ___) a proposal to renew and continue  
 the levy a tax on the real property located in  
 said district; submitting said proposal to the  
 voters of said district at an Election on April 
 2, 2013; and containing an emergency clause.    
            Board Bill No. 159                   
      An ordinance authorizing and directing     
 the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.    
 Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in        
 consideration of the sum of Three Thousand      
 One Hundred Dollars ($3,100.00) and other       
 good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim   
 Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim  
 unto the STATE OF MISSOURI , certain            
 City-owned property located in City Block       
 4879, which property is a parcel of land        
 containing 314 sq. ft. more or less known and   
 numbered as 4354R West Papin Street 63110.      
            Board Bill No. 237                   
       An ordinance to amend Section             
 14.08.220 of the Revised Code of the City of    
 St. Louis by repealing said section and         
 enacting in lieu thereof a new Section 14.08.220
 relating to 3:00 A.M. closing permits, and      
 containing an emergency clause.                 
            Board Bill No. 199                   
      An Ordinance recommended by the            
 Planning Commission on October 10, 2012,        
 to change the zoning of property as indicated   
 on the District Map, from "F" Neighborhood      
 Commercial District to the "G" Local            
 Commercial and Office District in City Block    
 4591.04 (5924 Clayton), so as to include the    
 described parcel of land in City Block 4591.04; 
 and containing an emergency clause.             
            Board Bill No. 230                   
      An ordinance approving a blighting study   
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,        
 2012 for the 1218 Central Industrial Drive      
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
 description of the boundaries of the Area in    
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto 
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",      
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation   
 of the Area is in the interest of the public    
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of   
 the people of the City; approving the Plan      
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430      
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a       
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment   
 of the Area which affords maximum               
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
by private enterprise; finding that no property   
in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
corporate and politic created under Missouri      
law, through the exercise of eminent domain,      
finding that some of the property within the      
Area is occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as      
defined herein) shall be responsible for          
providing relocation assistance pursuant to       
the Plan to any eligible occupants displaced      
as a result of implementation of the Plan;        
finding that financial aid may be necessary to    
enable the Area to be redeveloped in              
accordance with the Plan; finding that there      
shall be available up to a ten (10) year real     
estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation    
of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")     
and requesting various officials, departments,    
boards and agencies of the City to cooperate      
and to exercise their respective powers in a      
manner consistent with the Plan; and              
containing a severability clause.                 
           Board Bill No. 243                     
     An Ordinance dissolving the Special          
Allocation Fund for the 4391-99 West Pine         
Boulevard Redevelopment Project Area,             
terminating the designation of a portion of the   
City of St. Louis, Missouri, as a                 
Redevelopment Area, and authorizing certain       
actions relating thereto.                         
           Board Bill No. 244                     
     An Ordinance amending Ordinance No.          
67314, as amended by Ordinance No. 68261;         
amending Ordinance No. 67021; by reducing         
the interest rate on City of St. Louis Tax-       
Exempt Tax Increment Financing Notes issued       
to Great Southern Bank for Warehouse of           
Fixtures Redevelopment Project and 4100           
Forest Park Redevelopment Project;                
authorizing other related actions in connection   
therewith; and containing a severability clause.  
           Board Bill No. 214                     
     An ordinance approving a blighting study     
and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
2012 for the 4137 Manchester Ave.                 
Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,    
the "Plan") after finding that said               
Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the             
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a         
description of the boundaries of the Area in      
the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
of the Area is in the interest of the public      
health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
the people of the City; approving the Plan        
attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430        
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a         
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment     
 of the Area which affords maximum                 
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area         
 by private enterprise; finding that no property   
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
 corporate and politic created under Missouri      
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;      
 finding that none of the property within the      
 Area is occupied, but if it should become         
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined           
 herein) shall be responsible for providing        
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to     
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of   
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
 various officials, departments, boards and        
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
 exercise their respective powers in a manner      
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
 severability clause.                              
 Board Bill No. 215                                
       An ordinance approving a blighting study    
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
 2012 for the 4225-29 Laclede Ave.                 
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,    
 the "Plan") after finding that said               
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the             
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a         
 description of the boundaries of the Area in      
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
 of the Area is in the interest of the public      
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
 the people of the City; approving the Plan        
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430        
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a         
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment     
 of the Area which affords maximum                 
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area         
 by private enterprise; finding that no property   
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
 corporate and politic created under Missouri      
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;      
 finding that none of the property within the      
 Area is occupied, but if it should become         
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined           
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis      
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting      
 various officials, departments, boards and      
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to        
 exercise their respective powers in a manner    
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a      
 severability clause.                            
            Board Bill No. 229                   
       An ordinance authorizing The City of      
 St. Louis, Missouri, to enter into a Fourth     
 Amendment to Memorandum of Agreement            
 with the Bi-State Development Agency of the     
 Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District and     
 St. Louis County, Missouri, amending that       
 certain Memorandum of Agreement dated as        
 of November 1, 2002, as amended, for the        
 purpose of authorizing said Agency to issue     
 refunding obligations payable and secured by    
 pledge of the annual appropriation of the       
 quarter-cent sales tax levied by the City for   
 public transportation purposes by Ordinance     
 No. 63168, the additional quarter-cent sales    
 tax levied by the City for public transportation
 purposes by Ordinance No. 64111 and other       
 available revenues of said Agency; and          
 authorizing the City to take other necessary    
 actions in connection with such Fourth          
 Amendment.                                      
            Board Bill No. 242                   
       An Ordinance pertaining to Elections      
 enacting a new section to be codified as Section
 2.08.440 of the Revised Code of the City of     
 St. Louis requiring the disclosure of the donors
 to certain not for profit entities that make    
 expenditures or contributions in support or     
 opposition to a candidate for mayor,            
 comptroller, president of the board of          
 aldermen or a City of St. Louis ballot measure. 
            Board Bill No. 232                   
       An ordinance to authorizing and directing 
 the Mayor, the Comptroller, and the Treasurer   
 to enter into a Ground Lease with an Option     
 to Purchase with the South Grand Community      
 Improvement District, a political subdivision   
 of the State of Missouri for certain real estate
 belonging to the City of St. Louis and located  
 in City Block 2101, granting authority to take  
 such further actions as are necessary to        
 effectuate the Ground Lease with an Option      
 to Purchase, and containing a severability      
 clause and an emergency clause.                 
           Board Bill No. 207                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
2012 for the 3870 S. Utah Pl. Redevelopment       
Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")      
after finding that said Redevelopment Area        
("Area") is blighted as defined in Section        
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
as amended (the "Statute" being Sections          
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as               
amended); containing a description of the         
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
amended; finding that there is a feasible         
financial plan for the redevelopment of the       
Area which affords maximum opportunity for        
redevelopment of the Area by private              
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area  
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for         
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and       
politic created under Missouri law, through       
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that      
none of the property within the Area is           
occupied, but if it should become occupied        
the Redeveloper (as defined herein) shall be      
responsible for providing relocation assistance   
pursuant to the Plan to any eligible occupants    
displaced as a result of implementation of the    
Plan; finding that financial aid may be           
necessary to enable the Area to be redeveloped    
in accordance with the Plan; finding that there   
shall be available up to a five (5) year real     
estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation    
of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")     
and requesting various officials, departments,    
boards and agencies of the City to cooperate      
and to exercise their respective powers in a      
manner consistent with the Plan; and              
containing a severability clause.                 
           Board Bill No. 208                     
      An      ordinance       approving        a  
Redevelopment Plan for the 4158 Arsenal St.       
("Area") after finding that the Area is blighted  
as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised       
Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the      
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
inclusive), containing a description of the       
boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis  
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Exhibit "A", finding that               
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
the City; approving the Plan dated October        
 23, 2012 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated      
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to       
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible  
 financial plan for the development of the Area    
 which affords maximum opportunity for             
 development of the Area by private enterprise;    
 finding that no property in the Area may be       
 acquired by the Land Clearance for                
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of            
 eminent domain; finding that the property         
 within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should   
 become occupied the Redeveloper shall be          
 responsible for relocating any eligible           
 occupants displaced as a result of                
 implementation of the Plan; finding that          
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 five (5) year real estate tax abatement; and      
 pledging cooperation of the Board of              
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,        
 departments, boards and agencies of the City      
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective     
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.      
            Board Bill No. 228                     
       An Ordinance, recommended by and            
 authorizing and directing the Board of Public     
 Service to let contracts, purchase materials,     
 equipment and supplies, employ labor, hire        
 consultants, pay fees, salaries and wages, and    
 do all things necessary to provide for building,  
 facility and equipment improvements to the        
 City of St. Louis Water Division; to              
 appropriate and pay the estimated cost of         
 Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) from the     
 Water Works Contingent Account, pursuant          
 to Section Five Hundred Two (502) of              
 Ordinance Number 63135, approved March            
 29, 1994; containing sections for description     
 of the work, approval of plans and                
 specifications, work and material guarantees,     
 estimated expenditures, allocation and            
 reversion authorizations, reimbursement           
 authorization, applicable state and federal       
 wage rate requirements, equal opportunity         
 provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,         
 contract advertising statutes, and a public       
 work emergency clause.                            
          Board Bill No. 179                       
        (Committee Substitute)                     
      An Ordinance pertaining to the Excise        
 Code of the City of St. Louis; amending the       
 definitions of conducting business, person,       
 petition circle, and property owner in            
 Ordinance 68536, Section Two, paragraphs          
 14.01.085, 14.01.300, 14.01.310, 14.01.344;       
 amending retail license application               
 requirements and petition requirements in         
 Ordinance 68536, Section Nine, paragraphs         
 14.08.030 and 14.08.050; containing a             
 severability clause and an emergency clause.      
            Board Bill No. 238                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated November 13,       
 2012 for the 1706-28 Carroll St.                
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
 description of the boundaries of the Area in    
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto 
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",      
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation   
 of the Area is in the interest of the public    
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of   
 the people of the City; approving the Plan      
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430      
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a       
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment   
 of the Area which affords maximum               
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
 by private enterprise; finding that no property 
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land         
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the    
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body       
 corporate and politic created under Missouri    
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;    
 finding that none of the property within the    
 Area is occupied, but if it should become       
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined         
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to a five (5) year real estate tax abatement;
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis      
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting      
 various officials, departments, boards and      
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to        
 exercise their respective powers in a manner    
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a      
 severability clause.                            
            Board Bill No. 234                   
      An Ordinance authorizing and directing     
 the Fire Chief, on behalf of the City of St.    
 Louis, to enter into and execute a Grant        
 Agreement with the Federal Emergency            
 Management Agency, to fund a 2011 Staffing      
 for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response        
 project, upon approval of the Board of          
 Estimate and Apportionment, and to expend       
 funds by entering into contracts or otherwise   
 for grant purposes and containing an            
 emergency clause.                               
           Board Bill No. 155                     
     An ordinance recommended by the              
Planning Commission on August 1, 2012 to          
revoke the Deaconess Health System                
Community Unit Plan, which was established        
by Ordinance 63256 on July 27, 1994, for the      
described parcels of land in City Blocks          
2781.05, 2782.03, 4592.04 and 4593 as             
indicated on the District Map contingent          
upon acquisition of the identified properties     
by the St. Louis Zoo; and containing an           
emergency clause.                                 
           Board Bill No. 240                     
      An ordinance determining that the Tax       
Increment Financing Plans listed in Exhibit       
"A" are making satisfactory progress under        
the proposed time schedule for completion of      
projects therein.                                 
           Board Bill No. 209                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
2012 for the 2625 S. 11th St. Redevelopment       
Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")      
after finding that said Redevelopment Area        
("Area") is blighted as defined in Section        
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
as amended (the "Statute" being Sections          
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as               
amended); containing a description of the         
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
morals and general welfare of the people of       
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
amended; finding that there is a feasible         
financial plan for the redevelopment of the       
Area which affords maximum opportunity for        
redevelopment of the Area by private              
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area  
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for         
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and       
politic created under Missouri law, through       
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that      
none of the property within the Area is           
occupied, but if it should become occupied        
the Redeveloper (as defined herein) shall be      
responsible for providing relocation assistance   
pursuant to the Plan to any eligible occupants    
displaced as a result of implementation of the    
Plan; finding that financial aid may be           
necessary to enable the Area to be redeveloped    
in accordance with the Plan; finding that there   
shall be available up to a five (5) year real     
estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation    
of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")     
and requesting various officials, departments,    
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate       
 and to exercise their respective powers in a       
 manner consistent with the Plan; and               
 containing a severability clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 210                      
       An ordinance approving a blighting study     
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,           
 2012 for the 4008 Castleman Ave.                   
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,     
 the "Plan") after finding that said                
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as         
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised           
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the              
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715          
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a          
 description of the boundaries of the Area in       
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto    
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",         
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation      
 of the Area is in the interest of the public       
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of      
 the people of the City; approving the Plan         
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as         
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430         
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a          
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment      
 of the Area which affords maximum                  
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area          
 by private enterprise; finding that no property    
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land            
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the       
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body          
 corporate and politic created under Missouri       
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;       
 finding that none of the property within the       
 Area is occupied, but if it should become          
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined            
 herein) shall be responsible for providing         
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to      
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of    
 implementation of the Plan; finding that           
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the       
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with          
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available    
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;   
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis         
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting         
 various officials, departments, boards and         
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to           
 exercise their respective powers in a manner       
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a         
 severability clause.                               
          Board Bill No. 249                        
        (Committee Substitute)                      
       An ordinance recommended by the Board        
 of Public Service to vacate public surface rights  
 for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel      
 in 1. A 25' wide north/south alley in City block   
 1740 bounded by Salisbury, N. Florissant,          
 Mallinckrodt and 22nd. 2. Destrehan from           
 23rd to 22nd. 3. Destrehan from N. Florissant      
 west to alley in City Block 1741. 4. Destrehan   
 from 22nd east to alley in City Block 1741 in    
 the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter  
 described, in accordance with Charter            
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4     
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
 certain conditions on such vacation.             
            Board Bill No. 250                    
       An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
 for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel    
 in 1. Mallinckrodt from 25th Street eastwardly   
 138.25'  .25' to a point. 2. The southernmost    
 35.955'  .045' of the 20 foot wide north/        
 south alley in City Block 1748 as bounded by     
 Salisbury, 23rd, Mallinckrodt and 25th in the    
 City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter      
 described, in accordance with Charter            
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4     
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing       
 certain conditions on such vacation.             
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
        OF BOARD BILLS                            
      Mr. Roddy requested that Board Bill No.     
 231 be placed on the Board Bills for Third       
 Reading - Informal Calendar.                     
          REPORT OF THE                           
      ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                        
      Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,        
 St. Louis, December 14, 2012.                    
      To the President of the Board of            
 Aldermen:                                        
      The Committee on Engrossed and              
 Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the          
 following Board Bills report that they have      
 considered the same and they are truly           
 engrossed.                                       
            Board Bill No. 222                    
       An ordinance establishing the Forest       
 Park Southeast Special Business District         
 pursuant to Sections 71.790 through 71.808       
 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, setting     
 its boundaries, tax rate, initial rate of levy   
 subject to the approval of the qualified voters, 
 bonding authority, and uses to which tax         
 revenue may be put; creating a board of          
 commissioners; and containing severability,      
 effectiveness, and emergency clauses.            
            Board Bill No. 223                    
       An Ordinance submitting to the qualified   
 voters residing in the Forest Park Southeast     
 Special Business District Special Business       
 District as designated in Ordinance              
 No.____________, approved DATE (Board            
 Bill No. ___) a proposal to renew and continue   
the levy a tax on the real property located in    
said district; submitting said proposal to the    
voters of said district at an Election on April   
2, 2013; and containing an emergency clause.      
           Board Bill No. 224                     
      An ordinance establishing the Botanical     
Heights West Special Business District            
pursuant to Sections 71.790 through 71.808        
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, setting      
its boundaries, tax rate, initial rate of levy    
subject to the approval of the qualified voters,  
bonding authority, and uses to which tax          
revenue may be put; creating a board of           
commissioners; and containing severability,       
effectiveness, and emergency clauses.             
           Board Bill No. 225                     
      An ordinance submitting to the qualified    
voters residing in the Botanical Heights West     
Special Business District Special Business        
District as designated in Ordinance               
No.____________, approved DATE (Board             
Bill No. ___) a proposal to renew and continue    
the levy a tax on the real property located in    
said district; submitting said proposal to the    
voters of said district at an Election on April   
2, 2013; and containing an emergency clause.      
           Board Bill No. 159                     
     An ordinance authorizing and directing       
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.      
Louis to execute, upon receipt of and in          
consideration of the sum of Three Thousand        
One Hundred Dollars ($3,100.00) and other         
good and valuable consideration, a Quit Claim     
Deed to remise, release and forever quit-claim    
unto the STATE OF MISSOURI , certain              
City-owned property located in City Block         
4879, which property is a parcel of land          
containing 314 sq. ft. more or less known and     
numbered as 4354R West Papin Street 63110.        
           Board Bill No. 237                     
      An ordinance to amend Section               
14.08.220 of the Revised Code of the City of      
St. Louis by repealing said section and           
enacting in lieu thereof a new Section 14.08.220  
relating to 3:00 A.M. closing permits, and        
containing an emergency clause.                   
           Board Bill No. 199                     
     An Ordinance recommended by the              
Planning Commission on October 10, 2012,          
to change the zoning of property as indicated     
on the District Map, from "F" Neighborhood        
Commercial District to the "G" Local              
Commercial and Office District in City Block      
4591.04 (5924 Clayton), so as to include the      
described parcel of land in City Block 4591.04;   
and containing an emergency clause.               
           Board Bill No. 230                     
     An ordinance approving a blighting study     
and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
 2012 for the 1218 Central Industrial Drive       
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,   
 the "Plan") after finding that said              
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as       
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised         
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the            
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
 description of the boundaries of the Area in     
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto  
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",       
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation    
 of the Area is in the interest of the public     
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of    
 the people of the City; approving the Plan       
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430       
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a        
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment    
 of the Area which affords maximum                
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area        
 by private enterprise; finding that no property  
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land          
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the     
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body        
 corporate and politic created under Missouri     
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain,     
 finding that some of the property within the     
 Area is occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as     
 defined herein) shall be responsible for         
 providing relocation assistance pursuant to      
 the Plan to any eligible occupants displaced     
 as a result of implementation of the Plan;       
 finding that financial aid may be necessary to   
 enable the Area to be redeveloped in             
 accordance with the Plan; finding that there     
 shall be available up to a ten (10) year real    
 estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation   
 of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")    
 and requesting various officials, departments,   
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate     
 and to exercise their respective powers in a     
 manner consistent with the Plan; and             
 containing a severability clause.                
            Board Bill No. 243                    
      An Ordinance dissolving the Special         
 Allocation Fund for the 4391-99 West Pine        
 Boulevard Redevelopment Project Area,            
 terminating the designation of a portion of the  
 City of St. Louis, Missouri, as a                
 Redevelopment Area, and authorizing certain      
 actions relating thereto.                        
            Board Bill No. 244                    
      An Ordinance amending Ordinance No.         
 67314, as amended by Ordinance No. 68261;        
 amending Ordinance No. 67021; by reducing        
 the interest rate on City of St. Louis Tax-      
 Exempt Tax Increment Financing Notes issued      
 to Great Southern Bank for Warehouse of          
 Fixtures Redevelopment Project and 4100          
 Forest Park Redevelopment Project;               
 authorizing other related actions in connection 
 therewith; and containing a severability clause.
            Board Bill No. 214                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,        
 2012 for the 4137 Manchester Ave.               
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
 description of the boundaries of the Area in    
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto 
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",      
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation   
 of the Area is in the interest of the public    
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of   
 the people of the City; approving the Plan      
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430      
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a       
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment   
 of the Area which affords maximum               
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
 by private enterprise; finding that no property 
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land         
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the    
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body       
 corporate and politic created under Missouri    
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;    
 finding that none of the property within the    
 Area is occupied, but if it should become       
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined         
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis      
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting      
 various officials, departments, boards and      
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to        
 exercise their respective powers in a manner    
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a      
 severability clause.                            
            Board Bill No. 215                   
      An ordinance approving a blighting study   
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,        
 2012 for the 4225-29 Laclede Ave.               
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
description of the boundaries of the Area in      
the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
of the Area is in the interest of the public      
health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
the people of the City; approving the Plan        
attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430        
RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a         
feasible financial plan for the redevelopment     
of the Area which affords maximum                 
opportunity for redevelopment of the Area         
by private enterprise; finding that no property   
in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
corporate and politic created under Missouri      
law, through the exercise of eminent domain;      
finding that none of the property within the      
Area is occupied, but if it should become         
occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined           
herein) shall be responsible for providing        
relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to     
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of   
implementation of the Plan; finding that          
financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
various officials, departments, boards and        
agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
exercise their respective powers in a manner      
consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
severability clause.                              
           Board Bill No. 229                     
      An ordinance authorizing The City of        
St. Louis, Missouri, to enter into a Fourth       
Amendment to Memorandum of Agreement              
with the Bi-State Development Agency of the       
Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District and       
St. Louis County, Missouri, amending that         
certain Memorandum of Agreement dated as          
of November 1, 2002, as amended, for the          
purpose of authorizing said Agency to issue       
refunding obligations payable and secured by      
pledge of the annual appropriation of the         
quarter-cent sales tax levied by the City for     
public transportation purposes by Ordinance       
No. 63168, the additional quarter-cent sales      
tax levied by the City for public transportation  
purposes by Ordinance No. 64111 and other         
available revenues of said Agency; and            
authorizing the City to take other necessary      
actions in connection with such Fourth            
Amendment.                                        
           Board Bill No. 242                     
     An Ordinance pertaining to Elections         
enacting a new section to be codified as Section  
 2.08.440 of the Revised Code of the City of       
 St. Louis requiring the disclosure of the donors  
 to certain not for profit entities that make      
 expenditures or contributions in support or       
 opposition to a candidate for mayor,              
 comptroller, president of the board of            
 aldermen or a City of St. Louis ballot measure.   
            Board Bill No. 232                     
       An ordinance to authorizing and directing   
 the Mayor, the Comptroller, and the Treasurer     
 to enter into a Ground Lease with an Option       
 to Purchase with the South Grand Community        
 Improvement District, a political subdivision     
 of the State of Missouri for certain real estate  
 belonging to the City of St. Louis and located    
 in City Block 2101, granting authority to take    
 such further actions as are necessary to          
 effectuate the Ground Lease with an Option        
 to Purchase, and containing a severability        
 clause and an emergency clause.                   
            Board Bill No. 207                     
       An ordinance approving a blighting study    
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
 2012 for the 3870 S. Utah Pl. Redevelopment       
 Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")      
 after finding that said Redevelopment Area        
 ("Area") is blighted as defined in Section        
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
 as amended (the "Statute" being Sections          
 99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as               
 amended); containing a description of the         
 boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
 ("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
 herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
 morals and general welfare of the people of       
 the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
 pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
 amended; finding that there is a feasible         
 financial plan for the redevelopment of the       
 Area which affords maximum opportunity for        
 redevelopment of the Area by private              
 enterprise; finding that no property in the Area  
 may be acquired by the Land Clearance for         
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.        
 Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and       
 politic created under Missouri law, through       
 the exercise of eminent domain; finding that      
 none of the property within the Area is           
 occupied, but if it should become occupied        
 the Redeveloper (as defined herein) shall be      
 responsible for providing relocation assistance   
 pursuant to the Plan to any eligible occupants    
 displaced as a result of implementation of the    
 Plan; finding that financial aid may be           
 necessary to enable the Area to be redeveloped    
 in accordance with the Plan; finding that there   
 shall be available up to a five (5) year real     
 estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation    
 of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")   
 and requesting various officials, departments,  
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate    
 and to exercise their respective powers in a    
 manner consistent with the Plan; and            
 containing a severability clause.               
            Board Bill No. 208                   
       An      ordinance       approving        a
 Redevelopment Plan for the 4158 Arsenal St.     
 ("Area") after finding that the Area is blighted
 as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised     
 Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the    
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 inclusive), containing a description of the     
 boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis
 ("City"), attached hereto and incorporated      
 herein as Exhibit "A", finding that             
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area    
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,
 morals and general welfare of the people of     
 the City; approving the Plan dated October      
 23, 2012 for the Area ("Plan"), incorporated    
 herein by attached Exhibit "B", pursuant to     
 Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible
 financial plan for the development of the Area  
 which affords maximum opportunity for           
 development of the Area by private enterprise;  
 finding that no property in the Area may be     
 acquired by the Land Clearance for              
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.      
 Louis ("LCRA") through the exercise of          
 eminent domain; finding that the property       
 within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should 
 become occupied the Redeveloper shall be        
 responsible for relocating any eligible         
 occupants displaced as a result of              
 implementation of the Plan; finding that        
 financial aid may be necessary to enable the    
 Area to be redeveloped in accordance with       
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available 
 five (5) year real estate tax abatement; and    
 pledging cooperation of the Board of            
 Aldermen and requesting various officials,      
 departments, boards and agencies of the City    
 to cooperate and to exercise their respective   
 powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.    
            Board Bill No. 228                   
       An Ordinance, recommended by and          
 authorizing and directing the Board of Public   
 Service to let contracts, purchase materials,   
 equipment and supplies, employ labor, hire      
 consultants, pay fees, salaries and wages, and  
 do all things necessary to provide for building,
 facility and equipment improvements to the      
 City of St. Louis Water Division; to            
 appropriate and pay the estimated cost of       
 Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) from the   
 Water Works Contingent Account, pursuant        
 to Section Five Hundred Two (502) of            
 Ordinance Number 63135, approved March          
 29, 1994; containing sections for description   
of the work, approval of plans and               
specifications, work and material guarantees,    
estimated expenditures, allocation and           
reversion authorizations, reimbursement          
authorization, applicable state and federal      
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity        
provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,        
contract advertising statutes, and a public      
work emergency clause.                           
         Board Bill No. 179                      
       (Committee Substitute)                    
     An Ordinance pertaining to the Excise       
Code of the City of St. Louis; amending the      
definitions of conducting business, person,      
petition circle, and property owner in           
Ordinance 68536, Section Two, paragraphs         
14.01.085, 14.01.300, 14.01.310, 14.01.344;      
amending retail license application              
requirements and petition requirements in        
Ordinance 68536, Section Nine, paragraphs        
14.08.030 and 14.08.050; containing a            
severability clause and an emergency clause.     
           Board Bill No. 238                    
      An ordinance approving a blighting study   
and redevelopment plan dated November 13,        
2012 for the 1706-28 Carroll St.                 
Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,   
the "Plan") after finding that said              
Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as       
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised         
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the            
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715        
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a        
description of the boundaries of the Area in     
the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto  
and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",       
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation    
of the Area is in the interest of the public     
health, safety, morals and general welfare of    
the people of the City; approving the Plan       
attached hereto and incorporated herein as       
Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430       
RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a        
feasible financial plan for the redevelopment    
of the Area which affords maximum                
opportunity for redevelopment of the Area        
by private enterprise; finding that no property  
in the Area may be acquired by the Land          
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the     
City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body        
corporate and politic created under Missouri     
law, through the exercise of eminent domain;     
finding that none of the property within the     
Area is occupied, but if it should become        
occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined          
herein) shall be responsible for providing       
relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to    
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of  
implementation of the Plan; finding that         
financial aid may be necessary to enable the     
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with        
 the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
 up to a five (5) year real estate tax abatement;  
 and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
 Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
 various officials, departments, boards and        
 agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
 exercise their respective powers in a manner      
 consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
 severability clause.                              
            Board Bill No. 234                     
      An Ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Fire Chief, on behalf of the City of St.      
 Louis, to enter into and execute a Grant          
 Agreement with the Federal Emergency              
 Management Agency, to fund a 2011 Staffing        
 for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response          
 project, upon approval of the Board of            
 Estimate and Apportionment, and to expend         
 funds by entering into contracts or otherwise     
 for grant purposes and containing an              
 emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 155                     
      An ordinance recommended by the              
 Planning Commission on August 1, 2012 to          
 revoke the Deaconess Health System                
 Community Unit Plan, which was established        
 by Ordinance 63256 on July 27, 1994, for the      
 described parcels of land in City Blocks          
 2781.05, 2782.03, 4592.04 and 4593 as             
 indicated on the District Map contingent          
 upon acquisition of the identified properties     
 by the St. Louis Zoo; and containing an           
 emergency clause.                                 
            Board Bill No. 240                     
       An ordinance determining that the Tax       
 Increment Financing Plans listed in Exhibit       
 "A" are making satisfactory progress under        
 the proposed time schedule for completion of      
 projects therein.                                 
            Board Bill No. 209                     
       An ordinance approving a blighting study    
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,          
 2012 for the 2625 S. 11th St. Redevelopment       
 Area (as further defined herein, the "Plan")      
 after finding that said Redevelopment Area        
 ("Area") is blighted as defined in Section        
 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,       
 as amended (the "Statute" being Sections          
 99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as               
 amended); containing a description of the         
 boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis   
 ("City"), attached hereto and incorporated        
 herein as Attachment "A", finding that            
 redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area      
 is in the interest of the public health, safety,  
 morals and general welfare of the people of       
 the City; approving the Plan attached hereto      
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "B",        
 pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as               
 amended; finding that there is a feasible         
 financial plan for the redevelopment of the     
 Area which affords maximum opportunity for      
 redevelopment of the Area by private            
 enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
 may be acquired by the Land Clearance for       
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.      
 Louis ("LCRA"), a public body corporate and     
 politic created under Missouri law, through     
 the exercise of eminent domain; finding that    
 none of the property within the Area is         
 occupied, but if it should become occupied      
 the Redeveloper (as defined herein) shall be    
 responsible for providing relocation assistance 
 pursuant to the Plan to any eligible occupants  
 displaced as a result of implementation of the  
 Plan; finding that financial aid may be         
 necessary to enable the Area to be redeveloped  
 in accordance with the Plan; finding that there 
 shall be available up to a five (5) year real   
 estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation  
 of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen ("Board")   
 and requesting various officials, departments,  
 boards and agencies of the City to cooperate    
 and to exercise their respective powers in a    
 manner consistent with the Plan; and            
 containing a severability clause.               
            Board Bill No. 210                   
       An ordinance approving a blighting study  
 and redevelopment plan dated October 23,        
 2012 for the 4008 Castleman Ave.                
 Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,  
 the "Plan") after finding that said             
 Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as      
 defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised        
 Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the           
 "Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715       
 RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a       
 description of the boundaries of the Area in    
 the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto 
 and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",      
 finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation   
 of the Area is in the interest of the public    
 health, safety, morals and general welfare of   
 the people of the City; approving the Plan      
 attached hereto and incorporated herein as      
 Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430      
 RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a       
 feasible financial plan for the redevelopment   
 of the Area which affords maximum               
 opportunity for redevelopment of the Area       
 by private enterprise; finding that no property 
 in the Area may be acquired by the Land         
 Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the    
 City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body       
 corporate and politic created under Missouri    
 law, through the exercise of eminent domain;    
 finding that none of the property within the    
 Area is occupied, but if it should become       
 occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined         
 herein) shall be responsible for providing      
 relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to   
 any eligible occupants displaced as a result of 
implementation of the Plan; finding that           
financial aid may be necessary to enable the       
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with          
the Plan; finding that there shall be available    
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;   
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis         
Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting         
various officials, departments, boards and         
agencies of the City to cooperate and to           
exercise their respective powers in a manner       
consistent with the Plan; and containing a         
severability clause.                               
         Board Bill No. 249                        
       (Committee Substitute)                      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights  
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel      
in 1. A 25' wide north/south alley in City block   
1740 bounded by Salisbury, N. Florissant,          
Mallinckrodt and 22nd. 2. Destrehan from           
23rd to 22nd. 3. Destrehan from N. Florissant      
west to alley in City Block 1741. 4. Destrehan     
from 22nd east to alley in City Block 1741 in      
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter    
described, in accordance with Charter              
authority, and in conformity with Section l4       
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing         
certain conditions on such vacation.               
           Board Bill No. 250                      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights  
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel      
in 1. Mallinckrodt from 25th Street eastwardly     
138.25'  .25' to a point. 2. The southernmost      
35.955'  .045' of the 20 foot wide north/          
south alley in City Block 1748 as bounded by       
Salisbury, 23rd, Mallinckrodt and 25th in the      
City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter        
described, in accordance with Charter              
authority, and in conformity with Section l4       
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing         
certain conditions on such vacation.               
     Alderman Vollmer                              
     Chairman of the Committee                     
      Board Bills Numbered 222, 223, 224,          
225, 159, 237, 199, 230, 243, 244, 214, 215,       
229, 242, 232, 207, 208, 228, 179 (Committee       
Substitute), 238, 234, 155, 240, 209, 210, 249     
(Committee Substitute) and 250 were read and       
all other business being suspended, Mr. Reed,      
in the presence of the Board and in open           
session, affixed his signature in accordance       
with the provisions of the Charter.                
     COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                          
       CONSENT CALENDAR                            
     President Reed introduced Resolutions         
No. 192, 193, 199, 201 and 202 were read and       
the Clerk was instructed to read same.             
            Resolution No. 192                         
        Dr. Eugene B. Redmond                          
      WHEREAS, we pause to honor Dr.                   
 Eugene B. Redmond for his many                        
 contributions to our community; and                   
      WHEREAS, Dr. Redmond earned his                  
 bachelor's degree from Southern Illinois in           
 1964 and his masters from Washington                  
 University in 1966, both in English Literature;       
 and                                                   
      WHEREAS, Dr. Redmond has                         
 published works of poetry, has contributed            
 numerous articles to journals in addition to          
 other scholarly publications; and                     
      WHEREAS, Dr. Redmond was named                   
 Poet Laureate of East St. Louis in 1976; and          
      WHEREAS, Dr. Redmond along with                  
 Mrs. Darlene Roy, Mr. Sherman L. Fowler               
 found the writers club in 1986 and they               
 published the Drum Revue in collaboration             
 with Southern Illinois University-                    
 Edwardsville; and                                     
      WHEREAS, Dr. Redmond is Professor                
 Emeritus of creative writing at SIUE and was          
 recently inducted into their hall of fame; and        
      WHEREAS, many people admire Dr.                  
 Redmond's writing style and intellect, among          
 them one being Dr. Maya Angelou who is a              
 close friend and considers him to be like a           
 brother.                                              
        NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
 deliberations to recognize Dr. Eugene B.              
 Redmond and thank him for sharing with us             
 his literary talents. Also we applaud him for         
 his dedication to the St. Louis community, as         
 well as his selflessness in mentoring countless       
 students. We further direct the Clerk of this         
 Board to spread a copy of this Resolution             
 across the minutes of these proceedings and           
 to prepare a commemorative copy to the end            
 that it may be presented to our honoree at a          
 time and place deemed appropriate by the              
 Sponsor.                                              
 Introduced on the 7th day of December 2012            
 by:                                                   
 Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward            
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
            Resolution No. 193                         
            Jeanette Fedrick                           
      WHEREAS, we mourn the passing of                 
 Jeanette Fedrick on December 4, 2012; and             
       WHEREAS, we pause to remember her               
 life and the many people she loved and loved          
 her; and                                              
      WHEREAS, Jeanette was born October             
 5, 1940 in Paducah, Kentucky to Maehessa            
 Granbury; and                                       
       WHEREAS, she received her formal              
 education through the Jackson, Tennessee            
 public school system, where she excelled in         
 her studies; and                                    
      WHEREAS, she was a police officer with         
 the St. Louis Police Department for 14 years        
 before beginning a second career as a teacher       
 with the St. Louis Public Schools, where she        
 worked for 20 years; and                            
      WHEREAS, she was preceded in death             
 by her husband, John Fedrick and her mother,        
 Mae Pettigrew; and                                  
       WHEREAS, she was a faithful member            
 of Saint Teresa of Avila Catholic Church where      
 she enjoyed singing in the choir; and               
      WHEREAS, she leaves to cherish her             
 memory her three sons, William Clark, James         
 Clark, John Fedrick, Jr.; two daughters, Karen      
 Cox and Cassandra Johnson; daughters in-law         
 Rachel Clark, and Pechaz Clark, as well as a        
 host of other family members and friends.           
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                            
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
 deliberations to recognize and praise the           
 tremendous contributions Jeanette Fedrick           
 made to her family, friends and community.          
 We further direct the Clerk of this Board to        
 spread a copy of this Resolution across the         
 minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a       
 commemorative copy to the end that it may           
 be presented to our honoree at a time and           
 place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.            
 Introduced on the 7th day of December, 2012         
 by:                                                 
 Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
            Resolution No. 199                       
                   John Karel                        
       WHEREAS, Tower Grove Park has                 
 experienced a remarkable transformation since       
 John Karel became Park Director 25 years            
 ago. The Park once again functions as a vital       
 civic asset, strengthening the fabric of its many   
 adjacent neighborhoods, the city as a whole,        
 and the St. Louis region. Over 2.4 million          
 people now visit the Park annually; and             
      WHEREAS, Under John's leadership,              
 millions of dollars have been raised to restore     
 the Park's historic and unique structures such      
 as the Music Stand, the Piper Palm House,           
 numerous pavilions, bridges, statues,               
 entrances, and ponds. These structures and          
 landscapes are alive with activity from music       
 concerts to children playing in the wading pool     
at the Muckerman Fountain. Area residents             
run, bike, and walk on the miles of trails, picnic    
at the shelters, and simply enjoy visiting with       
friends and family in a beautiful and historic        
setting. Security has been enhanced with              
additional lighting and stronger ranger               
surveillance. The Park's trees, shrubs, and           
flowers are in far better health and condition;       
and                                                   
      WHEREAS, John has encouraged and                
nourished a whole range of new programs and           
activities in the Park, including the children's      
concert series, the Friends Lecture Series,           
carriage rides, and special gatherings of all         
kinds; and                                            
      WHEREAS, John has also dramatically             
strengthened the Park's organizational                
infrastructure, so that Tower Grove Park can          
be sustained for generations to come. The             
Park's governing body, the Board of                   
Commissioners, has been expanded and                  
provides oversight and governance.                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                             
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                  
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our            
deliberations to commend John Karel for his           
remarkable leadership in the stewardship and          
revitalization of Tower Grove Park, and for           
building a solid foundation for its future and        
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to          
spread a copy of this Resolution across the           
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a         
commemorative copy to the end that it may             
be presented to our honoree at a time and             
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.              
Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012          
by:                                                   
Honorable Stephen J. ConwayAlderman 8th Ward          
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen  
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward       
           Resolution No. 201                         
           Donald Anthony                             
     WHEREAS, Donald Anthony was born                 
on May 29, 1941 in the City of St. Louis to           
Gus and Anna Anthony; and                             
    WHEREAS, Donald graduated from St.                
Mary's High School in 1959; and                       
     WHEREAS, Donald is the husband of                
JoAnne (Werner) Anthony and the loving                
step-father of Jacob Muniz, Stephanie                 
(Muniz) Poe. Donald and JoAnne are the                
proud grandparents of Sara and T.J. Poe and           
Jacob, Sophia and Melina Muniz; and                   
     WHEREAS, Donald proudly served his               
country in the United States Air Force on             
active duty for four years at the Clinton-            
Sherman Air Force Base in Oklahoma and was            
discharged with the rank of Sergeant; and             
       WHEREAS, Donald was very active            
 with the Our Lady of Sorrows Catholic Parish     
 and also worked with the Parish Credit Union     
 and with the parish's Catholic Youth Council     
 (CYC) ; and                                      
       WHEREAS, Donald is a member of the         
 4th degree of the Knights of Columbus and        
 also a member of the 11th Ward Democratic        
 Organization; and                                
      WHEREAS, Donald was appointed to            
 the position of Court Room Clerk by Mariano      
 V. Favazza on October 30, 2000. He has served    
 the Court diligently as a Court Room Clerk       
 most recently for the Honorable David L.         
 Dowd; and                                        
      WHEREAS, Donald was voted the               
 "Best Clerk of the Year" for the State of        
 Missouri by the Missouri Lawyers Weekly          
 in 2007 and 2008; and                            
       WHEREAS, Donald will be retiring from      
 the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court on December      
 31, 2012 Donald and JoAnne are looking           
 forward to traveling and enjoying their family   
 after his well deserved retirement.              
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                         
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our       
 deliberations to recognize the retirement of     
 Donald Anthony and we wish him peace, good       
 health and happiness and we further direct       
 the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of      
 this Resolution across the minutes of these      
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative       
 copy to the end that it may be presented to      
 our honoree at a time and place deemed           
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                      
 Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012     
 by:                                              
 Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward  
           Resolution No. 202                     
               Bobby Rush                         
      WHEREAS, born as Emmit Ellis, Jr. on        
 November 10, 1940 in Homer, Louisiana,           
 Bobby Rush has become a blues legend with a      
 signature sound he calls "Folk Funk"; and        
       WHEREAS, while initially a Chicago         
 blues singer he eventually broke through with    
 his funkified, soul/blues with risque subject    
 matter. In 1971 he scored a #34 R & B hit        
 with "Chicken Heads" and soon followed that      
 up with regional hits on Jewel Records like      
 "It's Alright", "Bow-Legged Woman, Knock         
 Kneed Man" & "She's A Good'un"; and              
       WHEREAS, Bobby began crafting a            
 unique style that incorporated blues, funk and   
 folk. From Jewel, he went to Warner Brothers     
 then to Philadelphia International Records. By   
 1982, Rush had signed with LaJam Records      
 out of Jackson, Mississippi, where he released
 five albums, one of which was the             
 phenomenally successful hit, "Sue" and        
 became a major attraction in the South; and   
       WHEREAS, but it was in 1995 that        
 Bobby found a home at Malaco's Waldoxy        
 label. At Waldoxy, he released "One Monkey    
 Don't Stop No Show" which was nominated       
 for two W. C. Handy Awards. The Living        
 Blues Critics' Poll named him the year's Best 
 Live Performer in 1995; and                   
       WHEREAS, in 1996 and 1997, he           
 captured the Real Blues Magazine Award as     
 the Best Soul/R & B Live Performer. After     
 leaving Waldoxy 2003 was a pivotal year for   
 Rush as he was prominently featured in        
 Richard Pearce's documentary film "The Road   
 To Memphis," broadcast on PBS as part of      
 Martin Scorsese's film series "The Blues" and 
 also saw the launch of his Deep Rush record   
 label; and                                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                      
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of          
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our    
 deliberations to recognize Bobby Rush and     
 we wish him continued success, achievement    
 and accomplishment and we further direct the  
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this  
 Resolution across the minutes of these        
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative    
 copy to the end that it may be presented to   
 our honoree at a time and place deemed        
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                   
 Introduced on the 14th of December, 2012      
 by:                                           
 Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward  
      Unanimous consent having been            
 obtained Resolutions No. 192, 193, 199, 201   
 and 202 stood considered.                     
       President Reed moved that Resolutions   
 No. 192, 193, 199, 201 and 202 be adopted,    
 at this meeting of the Board.                 
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
 FIRST READING OF RESOLUTION                   
      Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution        
 No. 194 and the Clerk was instructed to read  
 same.                                         
           Resolution No. 194                  
 TO APPROVE THE 2013 EAST LOOP                 
    PARKVIEW GARDENS SPECIAL                   
     BUSINESS DISTRICT BUDGET                  
      WHEREAS, East Loop Parkview              
 Gardens Business District established by      
 Ordinance Number 63634, approved January      
26, 1996 is required under Section 7 thereof          
to file with the Board of Aldermen its annual         
budget for the funds collected by the Collector       
of Revenue; and                                       
     WHEREAS,           the    Board    of            
Commissioners of said District has met to             
consider the budgetary requirements of the            
Special Business District; and                        
     WHEREAS, said Board of                           
Commissioners hereby submits the following            
budget for the year beginning January 1, 2013         
and ending December 31, 2013 for                      
consideration and approval by this Honorable          
Board of Aldermen:                                    
 EAST LOOP PARKVIEW GARDENS                           
  SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT                           
         2013 BUDGET                                  
INCOME                                                
1. Real Estate Tax/Business                           
   LicenseFees                            $37,968.00  
2. Interest                                  $75.00   
                       Total             $38,043.00   
EXPENSES                                              
1. Administration                                     
   36% Salary                $9,600.00                
   36% Office supplies,                               
   phone newsletter, etc.    $2,300.00                
   Insurance                 $1,000.00                
   Sub Total                $12,900.00   $12,900.00   
2. Promotions                                         
   St. Louis Convention                               
   Visitor Guide          $5,500.00                   
   50% Ice Carnival       $4,000.00                   
   Walk of Fame           $9,100.00                   
   Sub Total            $18,6000.00      $18,600.00   
3. Streetscape Maintenance/Improvements               
   Beautification/Planters $3,000.00                  
   Signs/Lights              500.00                   
   Sub Total               $3,500.00   $3,500.00      
4. Security                  $3,047.00   $38,043.00   
      NOW      THEREFORE           BE    IT           
RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of                   
Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget          
is hereby approved.                                   
Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012          
by:                                                   
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward           
     Unanimous consent having been                    
obtained Resolution No. 194 stood                     
considered.                                           
     Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution                
No. 194 be adopted, at this meeting of the            
Board.                                                
      Seconded by Mr. Roddy.                          
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.               
      Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution                 
 No. 195 and the Clerk was instructed to read           
 same.                                                  
             Resolution No. 195                         
  TO APPROVE THE 2013 CENTRAL                           
       WEST END NORTH SPECIAL                           
      BUSINESS DISTRICT BUDGET                          
        WHEREAS, Central West End North                 
 Special Business District established by               
 Ordinance Number 63780, approved May                   
 31, 1996 is required under Section 7 thereof           
 to file with the Board of Aldermen its annual          
 budget for the funds collected by the Collector        
 of Revenue; and                                        
      WHEREAS,           the    Board    of             
 Commissioners of said District has met to              
 consider the budgetary requirements of the             
 Special Business District; and                         
      WHEREAS, said Board of                            
 Commissioners hereby submits the following             
 budget for the year beginning January 1, 2013          
 and ending December 31, 2013 for                       
 consideration and approval by this Honorable           
 Board of Aldermen:                                     
     CENTRAL WEST END NORTH                             
     SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT                          
           2013 BUDGET                                  
 Income                                                 
 2010 Tax receipts (projected)             475,000.00   
 Interest income (estimated)                   400.00   
     Total projected Income               $475,400.00   
 Expenses                                               
 Administration                            $500.00.00   
 Camera project                             75,000.00   
 Communications                              9,000.00   
 Insurance                                    1,500.00  
 Neighborhood Security Initiative (NSI)     40,000.00   
 Police Substation/Utilities                2,500. 00   
 Professional fees                            2,000.00  
 Program expense                               500.00   
 Pedestrian lighting                        25,000.00   
 Secretarial assistance                      2,400.00   
 Sidewalk & street cleaning                  9,000.00   
 Special Projects                             2,000.00  
 Supplemental police patrols               315,000.00   
      Total Projected Expenses            $475,400.00   
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                              
 RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of                    
 Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget           
 is hereby approved.                                    
 Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012           
 by:                                                    
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward            
     Unanimous consent having been                      
 obtained Resolution No. 195 stood                      
 considered.                                         
      Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution              
 No. 195 be adopted, at this meeting of the          
 Board.                                              
       Seconded by Mr. Roddy.                        
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.            
      Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution              
 No. 196 and the Clerk was instructed to read        
 same.                                               
            Resolution No. 196                       
        TO APPROVE THE 2013                          
    WESTMINSTER-LAKE SPECIAL                         
     BUSINESS DISTRICT BUDGET                        
      WHEREAS, Westminster-Lake Special              
 Business District established by Ordinance          
 Number 63481, approved June 2, 1995 is              
 required under Section 7 thereof to file with       
 the Board of Aldermen its annual budget for         
 the funds collected by the Collector of             
 Revenue; and                                        
      WHEREAS,           the    Board    of          
 Commissioners of said District has met to           
 consider the budgetary requirements of the          
 Special Business District; and                      
      WHEREAS, said Board of                         
 Commissioners hereby submits the following          
 budget for the year beginning January 1, 2013       
 and ending December 31, 2013 for                    
 consideration and approval by this Honorable        
 Board of Aldermen:                                  
        WESTMINSTER-LAKE                             
     SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT                       
            2013 BUDGET                              
 BEGINNINGBALANCE                                    
  1/1/2013 (estimated)                     $1000.00  
 REVENUE                                             
 Property Taxes                              $68,000 
 New City School Contribution                  $2,500
 Washington Place Contribution                $17,000
 Christian Science Contribution                 $300 
 Associations reimbursement of notice expense      $0
 Interest                                         $25
 TOTAL REVENUE                              $88,825  
 EXPENSES                                            
 The City's Finest, LLC Security Services            
  (projected 106 hours per month)         $65,000    
 Central West End Security Initiative      $9,900    
 Misc expenses for NSI Director             $500     
 Reserve - Additional Security                       
  Service or Capital                      $13,425    
  Expenditures as approved by commissioners          
 Reserve                                       $0    
 TOTAL EXPENSES                              $88,825 
    NOW THEREFORE BE IT                              
 RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of                 
Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget      
is hereby approved.                               
Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012      
by:                                               
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward       
     Unanimous consent having been                
obtained Resolution No. 196 stood                 
considered.                                       
     Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution            
No. 196 be adopted, at this meeting of the        
Board.                                            
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                     
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
     Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution            
No. 197 and the Clerk was instructed to read      
same.                                             
           Resolution No. 197                     
   TO APPROVE THE CATHEDRAL                       
    SQUARE SPECIAL BUSINESS                       
          DISTRICT BUDGET                         
     WHEREAS, Cathedral Square Special            
Business District established by Ordinance        
Number 63777, approved June 4, 1996 is            
required under Section 7 thereof to file with     
the Board of Aldermen its annual budget for       
the funds collected by the Collector of           
Revenue; and                                      
     WHEREAS,           the    Board    of        
Commissioners of said District has met to         
consider the budgetary requirements of the        
Special Business District; and                    
     WHEREAS, said Board of                       
Commissioners hereby submits the following        
budget for the year beginning January 1, 2013     
and ending December 31, 2013 for                  
consideration and approval by this Honorable      
Board of Aldermen:                                
   CATHEDRALSQUARE SPECIAL                        
       BUSINESS DISTRICT                          
          2013 BUDGET                             
CARRY OVER FROM 2012                 $150,000.00  
REVENUE EXPECTED                                  
Tax Revenue                          $198,000.00  
Donations                                      0  
Interest                                 $100.00  
         TOTALINCOME                 $198,100.00  
EXPENSES EXPECTED                                 
Security                                          
Patrols                              $144,000.00  
Security Cameras/GPS                   $3,600.00  
Neighborhood Improvements                         
Traffic Calming Project                           
  (Westminster and Newstead)                  0   
Traffic Calming Project (Maryland)   $20,000.00   
 Additional Security Measures                    
  (fence/camera etc)                $50,000.00   
 Snow Removal                        $12,000.00  
 Light Cleaning                       $2,400.00  
 Garden/Fence Maintenance            $10,000.00  
 Communications                       $2,500.00  
 Insurance                            $1,200.00  
 Postage & Miscellaneous              $1000.00   
 EXPENSES                          $246,700.00   
 EXPECTEDBALANCE                   $101,400.00   
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of             
 Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget    
 is hereby approved.                             
 Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012    
 by:                                             
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward     
      Unanimous consent having been              
 obtained Resolution No. 197 stood               
 considered.                                     
      Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution          
 No. 197 be adopted, at this meeting of the      
 Board.                                          
       Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                   
       Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution          
 No. 198 and the Clerk was instructed to read    
 same.                                           
            Resolution No. 198                   
            TO APPROVE THE                       
  2013 WASHINGTON PLACE SPECIAL                  
     BUSINESS DISTRICT BUDGET                    
      WHEREAS, Washington Place Special          
 Business District established by Ordinance      
 Number 63483, approved June 2, 1995 is          
 required under Section 7 thereof to file with   
 the Board of Aldermen its annual budget for     
 the funds collected by the Collector of         
 Revenue; and                                    
      WHEREAS,           the    Board    of      
 Commissioners of said District has met to       
 consider the budgetary requirements of the      
 Special Business District; and                  
      WHEREAS, said Board of                     
 Commissioners hereby submits the following      
 budget for the year beginning January 1, 2013   
 and ending December 31, 2013 for                
 consideration and approval by this Honorable    
 Board of Aldermen:                              
     WASHINGTON PLACE SPECIAL                    
        BUSINESS DISTRICT                        
        ANNUAL 2013 BUDGET                       
 Estimated Income & Cash on Hand                 
 Tax Income 2012             $34,623.00          
 2010 & 2011 Tax overdue                         
    (not yet paid)                   $1,569.00   
 Income Carry-over from 2012        $87,108.00   
    TOTAL                          $123,300.00   
 Estimated Expenses                              
 Board Approved Safety                           
    Enhancements               $44,000.00        
 Security/Safety expenditures                    
    under review               $22,000.00        
 Security Services                               
     (1/1/13 - 12/31/13)       $25,000.00        
 Address openings/access to                      
    street from alleys         $19,000.00        
 CWE- Neighborhood Security                      
    Initiative & Expenses       $6,000.00        
 Insurance                      $1,300.00        
 Reserves available for                          
    special needs               $6,000.00        
    TOTAL                     $123,300.00        
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of             
 Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget    
 is hereby approved.                             
 Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012    
 by:                                             
 Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward     
      Unanimous consent having been              
 obtained Resolution No. 198 stood               
 considered.                                     
      Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution          
 No. 198 be adopted, at this meeting of the      
 Board.                                          
      Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.         
      Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution          
 No. 200 and the Clerk was instructed to read    
 same.                                           
           Resolution No. 200                    
      WHEREAS, the Missouri History              
 Museum has been a part of the St. Louis         
 community since 1866, and joined the            
 Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum         
 District (ZMD) in 1988; and                     
       WHEREAS, the Metropolitan                 
 Zoological Park and Museum District's annual    
 tax revenue has increased from $3.9 million     
 dollars in 1972 to more than $73 million dollars
 in 2011 and approximately 15% of that           
 revenue is provided by St. Louis City           
 residents; and                                  
      WHEREAS, according to the 2011 IRS         
 Form 990 the vast majority of the Missouri      
 History Museum's expenses are paid out of       
 taxpayer funds received from the                
 Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum         
District; and                                       
     WHEREAS, the salary, compensation,             
earnings and benefits of the executive directors    
of the Metropolitan Zoological Park and             
Museum District were the subject previously         
reviewed by the Parks and Environmental             
Matters Committee under the authority of            
Resolution #63 which was passed on May 7,           
2010 ; and                                          
      WHEREAS, most recently the chairman           
of the Parks and Environmental Matters              
Committee has received a written request of         
the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the          
Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum             
District to assist in the investigation of various  
aspects of governance of the Missouri History       
Museum, and the president of the Missouri           
History Museum's compensation and                   
management policies that have embroiled that        
organization in controversy; and                    
     WHEREAS, the St Louis Board of                 
Aldermen should work to assure that its             
taxpaying public have confidence that their         
taxes are wisely spent.                             
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for               
the City of St. Louis that we direct the Parks      
and Environmental Matters Committee of this         
board to convene hearings for the purpose of        
examining the structure and organization of         
the Missouri History Museum, executive              
compensation, and all other related matters         
and we further direct the committee to include      
in such discussion Mr. Ray Stranghoener,            
chairman, and Dr. Robert R. Archibald,              
President of the Missouri History Museum            
and all other parties and documents deemed          
appropriate and necessary by the Parks and          
Environmental Matters Committee to conduct          
a fair and thorough investigation..                 
Introduced on the 14th day of December, 2012        
by:                                                 
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward           
     Unanimous consent having been                  
obtained Resolution No. 200 stood                   
considered.                                         
     Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution              
No. 200 be adopted, at this meeting of the          
Board.                                              
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                        
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.             
        SECOND READING OF                           
           RESOLUTIONS                              
      Ms. Young introduced Resolution No.           
190 (Committee Substitute) and the Clerk was        
instructed to read same.                            
          Resolution No. 190                        
        (Committee Substitute)                      
    TO APPROVE THE UNIFORM SIGN                     
          STANDARDS FOR THE                         
          SOUTH DOWNTOWN                            
         REDEVELOPMENT AREA                         
   SIGNAGE PLAN OVERLAY DISTRICT                    
       WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 65668,                
 approved on October 18, 2002, established          
 the South Downtown Redevelopment Area              
 (the "Redevelopment Area"); and                    
      WHEREAS, Ordinance No. 69198,                 
 approved on July 18, 2012 (as the same may         
 be amended or replaced from time to time, the      
 "Signage Code"), enacted new regulations           
 governing and controlling the erection,            
 remodeling, enlarging, moving, operation and       
 maintenance of all signs by conforming uses        
 within all zoning districts; and                   
       WHEREAS, Subsection 4 of Subsection          
 B of Section 26.68.160 as set forth in Section     
 Four of said Ordinance No. 69198 provides          
 that any redevelopment project area                
 established pursuant to Ordinance No. 65668        
 shall be deemed to be a Signage Plan Overlay       
 District, provided that the developer(s)           
 designated for such redevelopment project area     
 promulgate(s) uniform sign standards with          
 respect to the placement, location, size, height,  
 type and number of signs within such               
 redevelopment area, and that such uniform          
 sign standards and any amendments thereto          
 shall be immediately effective upon approval       
 by resolution of the Board of Aldermen; and        
      WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution               
 No. 02-LCRA-7278, adopted on November              
 1, 2002, the Land Clearance for                    
 Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.         
 Louis designated Gateway Stadium, L.L.C.           
 and Gateway Parking, L.L.C. (collectively,         
 "Redeveloper") as "redeveloper" of the             
 Redevelopment Area and authorized the              
 execution of a redevelopment agreement with        
 such parties; and                                  
      WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain             
 Redevelopment Agreement dated as of                
 November 1, 2002, as amended by Agreement          
 dated as of June 27, 2003, Redeveloper is the      
 "redeveloper" currently designated for the         
 Redevelopment Area; and                            
      WHEREAS, Redeveloper desires to               
 promulgate uniform sign standards with             
 respect to the placement, location, size, height,  
 type and number of signs within with the           
 Redevelopment Area; and                            
      WHEREAS, Redeveloper has submitted            
 to the Board of Aldermen the proposed              
 uniform sign standards attached hereto as          
 Exhibit A ("Uniform Sign Standards for the         
 South Downtown Redevelopment Area              
 Signage Plan Overlay District"); and           
      WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen            
 desire to approve the Uniform Sign Standards   
 for the South Downtown Redevelopment           
 Area Signage Plan Overlay District;            
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT                     
 RESOLVED that this Board of Aldermen           
 hereby approves the Uniform Sign Standards     
 for the South Downtown Redevelopment           
 Area Signage Plan Overlay District.            
 Introduced this 7th day of December 2012       
 by:                                            
 Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward    
      Unanimous consent having been             
 obtained Resolution No. 190 (Committee         
 Substitute) stood considered.                  
      Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution         
 No. 196 be adopted, at this meeting of the     
 Board.                                         
      Seconded by Ms. Florida.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
       Mr. Schmid introduced Resolution No.     
 185 (Committee Substitute) and the Clerk was   
 instructed to read same.                       
          Resolution No. 185                    
        (Committee Substitute)                  
       WHEREAS, Ordinance 67794,                
 approved January 14, 2008, established that    
 the annual proceeds of a sales tax shall be    
 initially deposited in a City Public Safety    
 Protection Sales Tax Fund and shall be         
 dedicated to and used for various purposes,    
 commencing with the fiscal year beginning July 
 1, 2008, and each fiscal year thereafter; and  
      WHEREAS, Section One (v) of such          
 Ordinance provides that one million dollars    
 ($1,000,000) shall be allocated annually for   
 crime prevention programs to be administered   
 by resolution of the St. Louis Board of        
 Aldermen with approval of the Public Safety    
 Committee and overseen by the City's public    
 safety department; and                         
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                       
 RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance            
 67794 the Public Safety Committee does         
 hereby approve and recommend for               
 appropriation the crime prevention program     
 funds for the Fiscal Year 2012 attached hereto 
 in Exhibit A.                                  
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that              
 copies of this resolution are to be maintained 
 by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed 
 in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and    
 delivered to the Director of Public Safety, the
 Budget Division and the Comptroller.           
Introduced on the 30th day of November, 2012  
by:                                           
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward     
     Unanimous consent having been            
obtained Resolution No. 185 (Committee        
Substitute) stood considered.                 
     Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution        
No. 196 be adopted, at this meeting of the    
Board.                                        
     Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.                 
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
       MISCELLANEOUS AND                      
       UNFINISHED BUSINESS                    
     None.                                    
          ANNOUNCEMENTS                       
     None.                                    
        EXCUSED ALDERMEN                      
     Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the          
following aldermen due to their necessary     
absence: Mr. Bosley, Ms. Howard and Mr.       
Boyd.                                         
     Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.                
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
             ADJOURNMENT                      
      Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under      
rules to return January 11, 2013.             
     Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.                 
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.       
     Respectfully submitted,                  
     David W. Sweeney                         
     Clerk, Board of Aldermen                 
    Due to the Holiday the Board of           
Public Service WILL NOT MEET for              
the Regular Scheduled Meeting of              
DECEMBER 25, 2012.                            
    The Board will meet the following         
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 2, 2013 at                 
1:45, ROOM 208.                               
     Thank you,                               
     Cherise Thomas, Secretary                
     Board of Public Service                  
   BOARD OF                                      
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                  
          REGULAR MEETING                        
   St. Louis, MO - December 18, 2012             
      Board met at 1:45 P.M.                     
      Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,     
 Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Roth and           
 President Bradley.                              
      Absent: None.                              
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of          
 December 11, 2012 were unanimously              
 approved.                                       
       Communications, reports, recommenda-      
 tions and documents were submitted by Board     
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:    
                PRESIDENT                        
      Detailed plans and specifications for the  
 following work approved and the Board set       
 date of January 29, 2012 for opening bids for   
 work and Secretary instructed to insert proper  
 advertisement therefore:                        
      Letting No. 8516 - Traffic Management      
 Enhancements, Federal Project No. CMAQ-         
 5401 (652)                                      
      Preliminary approval given and 10 days     
 granted in which to sign same:                  
       Letting No. 8513 - Concrete and Brick     
 Removal/Replacement and Complete                
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-88,       
 Gershenson Construction Company Inc., 2         
 Truitt Drive, Eureka, MO 63025, Amount:         
 $93,440.00                                      
       Letting No. 8514 - Concrete and Brick     
 Removal/Replacement and Complete                
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-90,       
 Gershenson Construction Company Inc., 2         
 Truitt Drive, Eureka, MO 63025, Amount:         
 $426,417.50                                     
     Letting No. 8515 - Concrete and Brick       
 Removal/Replacement and Complete                
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-89,       
 Amount: $438,337.50                             
      PSA No. 1129 - Professional Services       
 for On Call Airport Planning Services at        
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)      
 approved and President authorized to execute    
 same.                                           
        DIRECTORS OF                             
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                    
      Application No. 118950, AT and T, bore     
 and bury approx. 1000' of 24 court fiber for    
 customer Sprint cell tower at 5938 West         
 Florissant beginning at AT and T handhole       
 located on the west side of Riverview Blvd.    
 just north of Harney bore approximately 360'   
 north along the west side ordered approved,    
 subject to certain conditions.                 
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                        
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      Application No. 119039, Grand             
 Properties Inc., consolidate land at 3625      
 Grandel Square in C.B. 2288N ordered           
 approved, subject to certain conditions.       
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                      
      Draft of the following ordinance          
 approved, and the Secretary instructed to      
 forward same to the Board of Aldermen with     
 recommendation that it be passed.              
       "An Ordinance to conditionally vacate    
 1) the 15' wide north/south unimproved alley   
 and 2) the 20' wide east/west unimproved alley 
 in C.B. 1228-E as bounded by Penrose,          
 Broadway, Angelica and I-70."                  
       Affidavit of Saint Louis University for  
 the conditional vacation of public air, surface
 and sub-surface rights for vehicle, equestrian 
 and pedestrian travel in an irregular portion  
 of Olive Street adjacent to City block 1042-   
 W and 1057 and adjacent to 3411 Olive Street   
 to be filed for record on or before November   
 2, 2013.                                       
  DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND                       
 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY                    
       3 Permits ordered Filed by reason of the 
 fact that the locations are closed as follows: 
 114547, Lisa Chiodini-Stewart, to operate a    
 massage establishment at 3714 So.              
 Kingshighway, 114886, Topical Solutions        
 LLC d/b/a Cheap TRX, operate a tattoo parlor   
 at 3209 A So. Grand and, 115725, Inkbox        
 Tattoos, operate a tattoo parlor at 4204-06    
 Natural Bridge.                                
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                    
      16 Conditional Use Permit ordered         
 approved with conditions as submitted by       
 the Hearing Officer, per Board Order No. 766:  
        16 approved with conditions: 119021,    
 3632 So. Grand, daycare, 100 children (32      
 infants and 68 2 1/2 - 12 years, 119022, 4071  
 So. Grand, sit-down, carryout restaurant with  
 full drink bar and patio (name change), 119023,
 2644 Cherokee, photography galley, studio      
 (office space), 119024, 4366 Evans, real estate
 investment (office use only) home occupancy    
 wavier, 119025, 4457 So. 39th Street, HVAC,    
 install, repairs, maintenance business (office 
 use only), 119026, 4920 Michigan, remodeling   
 business (office use only) home occupancy      
 wavier, 119027, 4732 Goener, general           
 contracting business (office use only) home    
 occupancy wavier, 119028, 2701 St. Vincent,    
general contracting business (office use only6)             
home occupancy wavier, 119029, 3501                         
Connecticut, photography and event based                    
photo booth business (office use only) home                 
occupancy wavier, 119030, 3133 Shenandoah,                  
carpentry business (office use only) home                   
occupancy wavier., 119031, 3041-43 Olive,                   
interior demolition, improve green space for                
coffee shop, 119032, 4360 Lindell, office                   
space and law firm on the 1st floor, 119033,                
3305 So. 7th Street, home remodeling business               
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,                    
119034, 2238 Shenandoah, residential cleaning               
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,                    
119035, 3625 Grandel Square, interior and                   
exterior alterations (per plans) for theater                
(zoning only), 119036, 5901-19 St. Louis Ave.,              
salvage, metal recycling and outside storage                
business.                                                   
     Addendum No. 1 to the Agenda Items                     
for December 18, 2012 ordered approved.                     
     Agenda Items for December 18, 2012                     
ordered approved.                                           
     Adjourned to meet Tuesday, January 2,                  
2013.                                                       
                    Richard T. Bradley, P.E.                
                    President                               
ATTEST:                                                     
                    Cherise D. Thomas                       
                    Secretary                               
           City of St. Louis                                
        Board of Public Service                             
     TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                                     
        ENHANCEMENTS                                        
   PROJECT NO. CMAQ (5401)652                               
       LETTING NO. 8516                                     
     SEALED BIDS for the Public Work                        
hereinafter mentioned by the Board of Public                
Service, will be received at: City Hall, 1200               
Market Street, Room 208 until 1:45 P.M.                     
(Prevailing Local Time) on the 29TH day of                  
January, 2013 and at that time will be publicly             
opened and read.                                            
      Proposals must be made on blank forms                 
to be furnished by the President of the Board               
of Public Service, and must be submitted to                 
Room 208 City Hall.                                         
     The proposed work includes: Traffic                    
signal system improvement plans.                            
     Drawings and Specifications may be                     
examined on the Board of Public Service                     
w e b s i t e h t t p : / / w w w. s t l - b p s . o r g /  
planroom.aspx (BPS On Line Plan Room) and                   
may be purchased directly through the BPS                   
website from INDOX Services at cost plus                    
shipping, if applicable.                                    
      Purchased sets become the property of        
 the prospective bidder and no refunds will        
 be made.                                          
      A pre-bid conference will be held at         
 10:00 A.M. on the 3rd day of January, 2013,       
 in City Hall, Room 305, Office of the             
 President, Board of Public Service. All           
 bidders are encouraged to attend the pre-         
 bid meeting.                                      
       All labor used in the construction of this  
 public improvement shall be paid a wage no        
 less than the prevailing hourly rate of wages     
 of work of a similar character in this locality   
 as established by the Department of Labor         
 and Industrial Relations (Federal Wage Rate),     
 or state wage rate, whichever is higher.          
       The Board of Public Service hereby          
 notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively   
 ensure that in any contract entered into          
 pursuant to this advertisement, businesses        
 owned and controlled by socially and              
 economically disadvantaged individuals will       
 be afforded full opportunity to submit bids in    
 response to this invitation and will not be       
 discriminated against on the grounds of race,     
 color, religion, creed, sex, age, ancestry, or    
 national origin in consideration for an award."   
       All bidders must be on MoDOT's              
 Qualified Contractor List per Section 102.2       
 of the Missouri Standard Specifications for       
 Highway Construction, 2011 Edition including      
 all revisions. The contractor questionnaire       
 must be on file 7 days prior to bid opening.      
      Contractors and subcontractors who sign      
 a contract to work on public works projects       
 are required to provide a 10-hour OSHA            
 construction safety program or similar            
 program approved by the MO Department             
 of Labor and Industrial Relations, which shall    
 be completed by their on-site employees           
 within 60 days of beginning work on the           
 construction project.                             
      A certified or cashier's check or a bid      
 bond in the amount of 5% of the total base        
 bid amount or $19,374.00, whichever is            
 greater, shall be submitted with each proposal.   
       The Board of Public Service reserves the    
 right to reject any or all bids.                  
      The DBE Goal for this project is 3%.         
      No 2nd tier subcontracting will be allowed   
 on this project.                                  
       The right of the Board of Public Service    
 to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.  
     By Order of the Board of Public Service,      
 December 18, 2012.                                
                  Richard T. Bradley, P.E.       
                  President                      
 ATTEST:                                         
                  Cherise D. Thomas              
                  Secretary                      
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
      A public hearing will be held by the       
 Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on             
 Wednesday, January 2, 2013 in Room 208          
 City Hall to consider the following:            
      APPEAL #10104 - Appeal filed by            
 Union Tire Shop, from the determination of      
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an   
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to operate a used tire shop with sales, repairs 
 and an inside bay at 2314 Union Blvd. WARD      
 1 #AO502198-12 ZONE: "F" -                      
 Neighborhood Commercial District                
       APPEAL #10105 - Appeal filed by           
 Dogtown Pet Hospital, from the determination    
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of   
 an occupancy permit authorizing the             
 Appellant to operate a veterinary facility and  
 office at 1330 Hampton. WARD 24                 
 #AO502570-12         ZONE: "A" - Single         
 Family Dwelling District                        
      APPEAL #10106 - Appeal filed by            
 Addeen Auto LLC, from the determination of      
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an   
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant      
 to operate an office and auto sales & repair    
 business (no bodywork or painting) at 5005      
 Union (Suite 1). WARD 1 #AO502681-12            
 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial             
 District                                        
       APPEAL #10107 - Appeal filed by           
 Smoothie King, from the determination of the    
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a        
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to    
 complete interior alterations for a carryout    
 restaurant with a drive thru and sidewalk       
 seating, pre plans, at 1212 Olive. WARD 7       
 #AB502468-12 ZONE: "I" - Central                
 Business District                               
      APPEAL #10108 - Appeal filed by Tri-       
 Star Mercedes, from the determination of the    
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a        
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to    
 construct a commercial building for a car       
 dealership at 5915 Berthold. WARD 17            
 #AB502451-12 ZONE: "G" - Local                  
 Commercial & Office District                    
      APPEAL #10109 - Appeal filed by            
 Sangita, from the determination of the Building 
 Commissioner in the denial of a building        
 permit authorizing the Appellant to construct   
 a multi-family building, per plans, zoning only,
at 3853 Forest Park Ave. WARD 17                   
#AB502683-12 ZONE: "J" - Industrial                
District                                           
     In accordance with the provisions of          
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.          
    By authority of the Board of                   
Adjustment.                                        
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                       
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                     
     A public hearing will be held by the          
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on                
Wednesday, January 9, 2013 in Room 208             
City Hall to consider the following:               
      APPEAL #10110 - Appeal filed by              
Southside Auto Credit, from the determination      
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of      
an occupancy permit authorizing the                
Appellant to operate a used auto sales             
business at 3963 Chippewa. WARD 15                 
#AO502636-12 ZONE: "G" - Local                     
Commercial & Office District                       
     APPEAL #10111 - Appeal filed by The           
Tax Firm LLC, from the determination of the        
Building Commissioner in the denial of an          
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant         
to operate an administrative office in the entire  
basement at 1902 Arsenal. WARD 9                   
#AO502879-12 ZONE: "C" - Multiple                  
Family Dwelling District                           
      APPEAL #10112 - Appeal filed by              
Ninth Street Towing & Storage Inc, from the        
determination of the Building Commissioner         
in the denial of an occupancy permit               
authorizing the Appellant to operate a tow         
lot and office space at 1915 N. 9th. WARD 2        
 #AO501078-12 ZONE: "J" - Industrial               
District                                           
      APPEAL #10113 - Appeal filed by STL          
Tower Partners LLC, from the determination         
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of      
a building permit authorizing the Appellant        
to complete interior and exterior alterations      
for a mix use building (ground floor commercial    
and residential units on floors 2-25), zoning      
only, at 411 N. 8 th Street. WARD 7                
#AB502805-12 ZONE: "I" - Central                   
Business District                                  
     APPEAL #9094 - Appeal filed by L & J          
Wrecking (I), from the determination of the        
Building Commissioner in the revocation of a       
use variance and occupancy permit, with            
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to           
operate an outside storage of demolition           
equipment business at 2601 University.             
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 3 #AO428791-             
08 ZONE: "G" - Local Commercial and                
Office District                                    
      In accordance with the provisions of       
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.       
     By authority of the Board of                
 Adjustment.                                     
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                    
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held     
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on           
 Thursday, January 3, 2013 on the following      
 conditional uses:                               
       2356 Mc Causland - Home Occupancy         
 Waiver - Coffy's Customized Creations           
 (Internet Sales/Jewelry Manufacturing/Office    
 Use Only) "J" Industrial District. DbWard       
 24                                              
      2136 Knox - Home Occupancy Waiver          
 -B Express (Transportation/Office Use Only)     
 "A" Single Family Dwelling District. Te Ward    
 24                                              
       2849 Wyoming - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - Tec Restoration and Construction       
 (Interior Framing/Office Use Only) "B" Two      
 Family Dwelling District. Db Ward 9             
      6229-31 Gravois - #AO-502924-12-           
 Gravois Resale Shop (Resale Shop/Clothes/       
 Furniture/Expanding Business) "F" Neighbor-     
 hood Commercial District. Te Ward 13            
      6235 Delmar - #AO-502670-12-               
 Mission Taco (Full Drink Restaurant/            
 Carryout/Walk-up Window/Retail Sales) "F"       
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward       
 28                                              
     4170-74 Manchester - #AO-501717-            
 12-Honey (Full Drink Bar w/Patio) "G" Local     
 Commercial and Office District. Te Ward 17      
      5990 Page - #AO-502690-12-Good             
 Shepard Infant & Toddler Center (Daycare/       
 32 Children/8 Infants/24 2 1/2 to 12 yrs./Sun-  
 Sat/6am to 12Midn./No Cooking) "F"              
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward       
 22                                              
       4227 McRee - #AB-502736-12-UIC            
 (Interior & Exterior Alterations per plans for  
 Single Family) "C" Multiple Family Dwelling     
 District. Te Ward 19                            
      3840 Russell - #AB-502635-12-              
 Micheal Bender (Construct 2 Car/2 Story/        
 Detached Garage per plans) "B" Two Family       
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 8                    
      1500 Lafayette - #AB-502021-12-Food        
 Hub, LLC (Construct Grocery Store per plans     
 for Open Air Market) "H" Area Commercial        
 District. Bl Ward 7                             
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
      A Conditional Use Hearing will be held      
 in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on            
 Thursday, January 10, 2013 on the following      
 conditional uses:                                
     833 Melvin - Home Occupancy Waiver           
 - Dependable Construction (Construction/         
 General/Office Use Only) "A" Single Family       
 Dwelling District. Te Ward 2                     
      7305 Esplanade - Home Occupancy             
 Waiver - Hanley Fold Farm (Handmade Soap/        
 Lotion Bars/Lip Balm/Office Use Only) "A"        
 Single Family Dwelling District. Db Ward         
 24                                               
      5009 Virginia - #AO-502914-12-              
 Discount Grocery Store, Inc (Grocery Store/      
 Cooking/No Liquor/Change of Ownership)           
 "F" Neighborhood Commercial District. Te         
 Ward 25                                          
      2607 Rutger - #AB-503174-12-Laclede         
 Gas (Construct Utility Enclosure per plans/      
 Zoning Only) "D" Multiple Family Dwelling        
 District. Bl Ward 6                              
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                   
        CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
 PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY                     
      The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified  
 organizations to submit Proposals to provide     
 week long summer camp instruction for St.        
 Louis City youth ages 8-15. Examples of          
 programs includes, but are not limited to,       
 baseball, softball, basketball, football,        
 volleyball, golf, tennis, soccer, track, theater.
      The Request for Proposals may be            
 obtained at the Department of Parks,             
 Recreation and Forestry, 5600 Clayton in         
 Forest Park, St. Louis, MO 63110,                
 commencing December 5, 2012 or from the          
 City's website at http://stlouis-mo.gov/         
 departments/parks.                               
      Sealed proposals will be received until     
 4:00 P.M. on Friday, February 1, 2013 at         
 the Department of Parks.                         
      The City of St. Louis is an Equal           
 opportunity Employer, and Respondents            
 shall comply with the Mayor's Executive          
 Order #28, as amended.                           
      The City of St. Louis reserves the right    
 to accept or reject any or all responses or to   
 cancel this bid in part or in its entirety.      
DEPARTMENT OF                                                              63101. Applications can be submitted on the     
                                                                           Internet. Visit the City web site at http://    
 PERSONNEL                                                                 stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.         
                                                                                           Richard R. Frank,               
      NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                                                               Director                        
     The City of St. Louis, Department of                                                                                  
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,                                   December 18, 2012                               
announces competitive Civil Service                                                                                        
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal                                                                            
Service.                                                                                                                   
                                                                           NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                           
                                                                                CITY ORDINANCE requires that any           
                                                                           individual or company who performs work         
      The last date for filing an application for                          within the City limits must obtain a Business   
the following examinations is JANUARY 4,                                   License. This would also apply to businesses    
2013.                                                                      who employ sales or delivery personnel to       
                                                                           come into the City. Contracts requiring work    
           CASHIER SUPERVISOR                                              to be performed in the City will NOT be         
             Prom./O.C. 1972                                                                                               
                                                                           awarded to unlicensed businesses.               
 $30,394 to $45,968 (Annual Salary Range)                                                                                  
      CITY PLANNING EXECUTIVE                                                                                              
               Prom. 1971                                                  ST. LOUIS LIVING                                
    (OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY                                                                                                
          EMPLOYEES ONLY)                                                  WAGE ORDINANCE                                  
$82,914 to $126,308 (Annual Salary Range)                                    LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                      
                                                                           Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that    
                                                                           the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597      
      The last date for filing an application for                                                                          
                                                                           and associated Regulations apply to the         
the following examination is JANUARY 18,                                                                                   
                                                                           service [concession] [lease] [City Financial    
2013.                                                                                                                      
                                                                           Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are    
 WATER MAINTENANCE WORKER                                                  being sought herein. This Ordinance requires    
             Prom./O.C. 1969                                               that, unless specific exemptions apply, all     
 $30,394 to $45,968 (Annual Salary Range)                                  individuals who perform work pursuant to a      
________________________________________________________________________   contract executed between the successful        
                                                                           [bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]      
     Applications for the following                                                                                        
examinations will be accepted until a sufficient                           must be paid a minimum of the applicable        
number are received to fill the anticipated                                Living Wage rates set forth in the attached     
vacancies. Please submit application as soon                               Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are     
as possible.                                                               adjusted during the term of the contract        
     CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT                                                pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates     
           OPERATOR II                                                     after such adjustment is made. Each bidder      
                                                                           [proponent] must submit the attached "Living    
         (Water Division -                                                                                                 
        Distribution Section)                                              Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance              
            Prom./O.C.C. 1970                                              Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure   
 $36,478 to $59,072 (Annual Salary Range)                                  to submit this Declaration with the bid         
                                                                           [proposal] will result in rejection of the bid  
                EMS DISPATCHER                                             [proposal]. A successful bidder 's              
                     Prom./O.C.C. 1889                                                                                     
                                                                           [proponent's] failure to comply with contract   
 $30,394 to $45,968 (Annual Salary Range)                                                                                  
                                                                           provisions related to the Living Wage           
________________________________________________________________________                                                   
                                                                           Ordinance may result in termination of the      
     Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,                                                                                    
                                                                           contract and the imposition of additional       
Social Security, and Employee Retirement                                                                                   
System Benefits privileges are provided in                                 penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and     
addition to salary.                                                        Regulations.                                    
                                                                                Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations    
      Application forms and further                                                                                        
information concerning duties of positions,                                are available upon request from La Queta        
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative                           Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be    
weights of examination components, and                                     accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living         
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the                           wage.                                           
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114                                                                                
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO                                                                                      
    SUPPLY                                      
 COMMISSIONER                                   
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,             
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,       
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,            
 DECEMBER 25, 2012 - INFORMAL and               
 ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the        
 undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
 o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
 dates specified.                               
    THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 2013                   
             LAUNDRY BAGS                       
 for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
 INSTITUTION) per REQ. #84. (SC)                
  PORTABLE, STACKABLE BUNKS                     
 for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
 INSTITUTION)per REQ. #85. (SC)                 
   LAUNDRY NET BAGS 24" X 30"                   
 for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
 INSTITUTION)per REQ. #87. (SC)                 
       FILE CABINETS & DESKS                    
 for HEALTH COMMISSIONER per REQ.               
 #107. (SC)                                     
        DUPLEX CONDENSATE                       
           RETURN UNIT                          
 for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1213.             
 (BF)                                           
    DOUBLE SOCKET WRENCHS                       
 for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1220.             
 (LC)                                           
    TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013                   
        WATER PRESSURE                          
        CONTROL VALVE                           
 for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1217.             
 (BF)                                           
   THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2013                   
      THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY                 
 PRE-BID MEETING FOR MOVING                     
 SERVICES. THE MEETING WILL BE AT               
 9:00 AM CENTRAL STANDARD TIME                  
 (CST), CITY HALL, 1200 MARKET                  
 STREET, RM 324, 3 RD FLOOR                     
 CONFERENCE RM, ST. LOUIS, MO                   
 63103.                                         
    VENDORS MUST HAVE A                         
 REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE                  
 MEETING IN ORDER TO BID.                       
     SUPPLY                                      
  COMMISSIONER                                   
  Office of the Supply Commissioner,             
  Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,       
  St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,            
  DECEMBER 25, 2012 - INFORMAL and               
  ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the        
  undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
  o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
  dates specified.                               
     THURSDAY, JANUARY 3, 2013                   
              LAUNDRY BAGS                       
  for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
  INSTITUTION) per REQ. #84. (SC)                
   PORTABLE, STACKABLE BUNKS                     
  for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
  INSTITUTION)per REQ. #85. (SC)                 
    LAUNDRY NET BAGS 24" X 30"                   
  for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY                       
  INSTITUTION)per REQ. #87. (SC)                 
        FILE CABINETS & DESKS                    
  for HEALTH COMMISSIONER per REQ.               
  #107. (SC)                                     
         DUPLEX CONDENSATE                       
            RETURN UNIT                          
  for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1213.             
  (BF)                                           
     DOUBLE SOCKET WRENCHS                       
  for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1220.             
  (LC)                                           
     TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2013                   
         WATER PRESSURE                          
         CONTROL VALVE                           
  for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1217.             
  (BF)                                           
    THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2013                   
       THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY                 
  PRE-BID MEETING FOR MOVING                     
  SERVICES. THE MEETING WILL BE AT               
  9:00 AM CENTRAL STANDARD TIME                  
  (CST), CITY HALL, 1200 MARKET                  
  STREET, RM 324, 3 RD FLOOR                     
  CONFERENCE RM, ST. LOUIS, MO                   
  63103.                                         
     VENDORS MUST HAVE A                         
  REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE                  
  MEETING IN ORDER TO BID.                       
   TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2013                   
      BID PROPOSAL FOR                         
      MOVING SERVICES                          
FOR A PERIOD OF TWO (2) YEARS                  
FROM MAY 15, 2013 TO MAY 14, 2015.             
(SC)                                           
     Notice to All Suppliers                   
      It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with             
employment practices that are in accordance    
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis   
and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated    
there-under to the end that all Contractors    
and suppliers of materials and services will   
offer equal opportunity for employment and     
job advancement to blacks and other minority   
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.     
             Obtaining Bids                    
          To download bids log on to:          
 http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm  
then, search available bids.                   
    You may also contact the Supply            
Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or     
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com           
      Bidders are invited to be present at the 
opening of bids. Bid results may be available  
30 days following the date of bid opening.     
If you desire bid results, please include a    
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.  
          Recycled Products                    
     The City of St. Louis desires to          
purchase recycled products whenever            
possible, especially items containing post     
consumer waste materials. If your company      
can supply recycled products, please provide   
information to this office.                    
           Surplus Property                    
     Notice is hereby given that the City of   
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale   
during the course of the year. The property    
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the    
City Journal.                                  
     The right to reject any and all bids is   
reserved.                                      
                Freddie L. Dunlap              
                Supply Commissioner            
                (314) 622-4580                 
                www.stlouis-mo.gov             
