       The   City Journal             
          (USPS: 114-540)             
         Published Weekly             
         Under Authority of           
     City Ordinance No. 30050         
        by City of St. Louis          
      Parrie L. May, Register         
         1206 Market Street           
         Room 118 City Hall           
     St. Louis, Missouri 63103        
 Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00   
         IN ADVANCE                   
 Copies for sale and distribution at  
       Room 118 City Hall             
     Periodicals postage paid at      
         St. Louis, Missouri          
Postmaster: send address              
changes to City Journal, Register's   
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room      
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.      
       JOURNAL                    
        OF THE                    
   Board of                       
   Aldermen                       
      OF THE                      
 CITY OF ST. LOUIS                
       REGULAR                    
        SESSION                   
       2013-2014                  
 PRELIMINARY                      
 The following is a preliminary   
  draft of the minutes of the     
           meeting of             
   Friday, February 14, 2014.     
     These minutes are            
   unofficial and subject to      
    Aldermanic approval.          
     City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen     
 Chambers February 14, 2014.                 
      The roll was called and the following  
 Aldermen answered to their names: Tyus,     
 Flowers, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,   
 Arnowitz, Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, 
 Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Boyd, Vaccaro,      
 Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson  
 and President Reed. 22                      
      "Almighty God, source of all authority,
 we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations 
 and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen."       
    ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY                      
   SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY                  
      None.                                  
          INTRODUCTION OF                    
          HONORED GUESTS                     
      None.                                  
       APPROVAL OF MINUTES                   
       OF PREVIOUS MEETING                   
     Mr. Kennedy moved to approve the        
 minutes for January 31, 2014.               
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                  
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.     
    REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS                 
         Report of the Clerk                 
     of the Board of Aldermen                
      To the President of the Board of       
 Aldermen:                                   
     I wish to report that on the 14th day of
 February, 2014, I delivered to the Office of
the Mayor of the City of St. Louis the            
following board bills that was truly agreed to    
and finally adopted.                              
           Board Bill No. 268                     
      An ordinance recommended and                
approved by the Airport Commission, the           
Comptroller and the Board of Estimate and         
Apportionment, making certain findings with       
respect to the transfer of up to Thirteen         
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven                
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars         
($13,727,769) of excess moneys that The City      
of St. Louis (the "City"), the owner and          
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International       
Airport(R) (the "Airport"), intends to transfer   
from the Debt Service Stabilization Fund (the     
"DSSF") to the Airport Revenue Fund (the          
"Revenue Fund") in accordance with Section        
516.B of the Lambert-St. Louis International      
Airport(R) Indenture of Trust between the City,   
as Grantor, and UMB Bank, N.A., as Trustee,       
dated as of October 15, 1984, as amended and      
restated as of July 1, 2009, as amended and       
supplemented (the "Indenture"); authorizing       
a transfer in an amount not to exceed Thirteen    
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven                
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars         
($13,727,769) from the DSSF into the              
Revenue Fund to be used to make funds             
available to mitigate rates on an annual basis    
during the term of the Airport Use and Lease      
Agreement commencing July 1, 2011;                
containing a severability clause; and containing  
an emergency clause.                              
           Board Bill No. 229                     
           (Floor Substitute)                     
     An Ordinance submitting to the qualified     
voters of the City of St. Louis a proposed        
amendment to the Charter of the City of St.       
Louis adding Paragraph (e) to Section 4 of        
Article XVIII of the Charter of the City of St.   
Louis relating to the granting of a veterans'     
preference to applicants who successfully pass    
examinations for civil service positions;         
providing for an election to be held thereon      
and for the manner of voting thereat; and         
containing an emergency clause.                   
           Board Bill No. 266                     
     An Ordinance authorizing the he              
Treasurer to enter into the amended and           
restated Missouri Securities Investment           
Program Intergovernmental Cooperation             
Agreement and containing an effective date.       
            Board Bill No. 88                     
     An ordinance pertaining to the collection    
of funds to assist in the City's efforts to       
support the restoration of St. Louis City Hall;   
authorizing the Comptroller to establish "The     
City Hall Restoration Fund" to help provide       
 needed repairs and restoration to the St. Louis    
 City Hall, located at 1200 Market; directing       
 the Collector of Revenue to transfer to the        
 Comptroller any amount of money in excess          
 of the amount due on any water bill, personal      
 property or real estate tax bill in the City of    
 St. Louis which is designated by any person,       
 firm or corporation for the " The City Hall        
 Restoration Fund " program; the depositing         
 of " The City Hall Restoration Fund " funds;       
 and the use of " The City Hall Restoration         
 Fund " funds.                                      
          Board Bill No. 290                        
        (Committee Substitute)                      
       An ordinance authorizing and directing       
 the Mayor and the Comptroller, on behalf of        
 the City, to enter into and execute one or more    
 Amended and Restated Redevelopment                 
 Agreements with respect to the Downtown            
 Convention Center Hotel; prescribing the form      
 and details of said agreements; terminating the    
 St. Louis Convention Center Hotel                  
 Community Improvement District; approving          
 a petition for the establishment of the St. Louis  
 Convention Center Hotel 2 Community                
 Improvement District; authorizing an               
 amendment to an existing Intergovernmental         
 Cooperation and Transportation Project             
 Agreement; authorizing certain other actions       
 of City officials; and containing an emergency     
 clause and a severability clause.                  
            Board Bill No. 271                      
       An ordinance authorizing and direction       
 the Street Commissioner to take all necessary      
 actions to honorarily designate Pine Street        
 between 4th Street and Broadway (FH logo           
 then) "Bill Anderson Way."                         
            Board Bill No. 283                      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board         
 of Public Service to vacate above surface,         
 surface and sub-surface rights for vehicle,        
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in Dillon from    
 Carroll northwardly 140 feet to a point            
 previously vacated in City Block 1250 and          
 1251 in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as        
 hereinafter described, in accordance with          
 Charter authority, and in conformity with          
 Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and       
 imposing certain conditions on such vacation.      
            Board Bill No. 249                      
       An ordinance establishing a stop site for    
 all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling      
 on Maurice Avenue at Leola Avenue and              
 containing an emergency clause.                    
            Board Bill No. 278                      
      An ordinance recommended by the Board         
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above    
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for        
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in the
 remaining 149.30 feet of the 20 foot wide       
 north/south alley in City Block 603 as bounded  
 by Mullanphy (vacated by Ordinance 49626),      
 Ninth, Cass and Tenth in the City of St. Louis, 
 Missouri, as hereinafter described, in          
 accordance with Charter authority, and in       
 conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of    
 the Charter and imposing certain conditions     
 on such vacation.                               
            Board Bill No. 284                   
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to vacate above surface,      
 surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,     
 equestrian and pedestrian travel in Duncan      
 from Vandeventer westwardly approximately       
 984 feet to a point and the 15 foot wide east/  
 west alley in City Block 3918-W as bounded      
 by Forest Park Ave., Vandeventer, Duncan        
 and Sarah in the City of St. Louis, Missouri,   
 as hereinafter described, in accordance with    
 Charter authority, and in conformity with       
 Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and    
 imposing certain conditions on such vacation.   
            Board Bill No. 287                   
      An ordinance recommended by the Board      
 of Public Service to conditionally vacate above 
 surface, surface and sub-surface rights for     
 vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in the
 easternmost 80.41  .02 feet of the 15 foot      
 wide east/west alley in City Block 2102 as      
 bounded by Arsenal, Grand, Hartford and         
 Spring in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as   
 hereinafter described, in accordance with       
 Charter authority, and in conformity with       
 Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and    
 imposing certain conditions on such vacation.   
      David W. Sweeney, Clerk                    
      Board of Aldermen                          
           Office of the Mayor                   
      None.                                      
 PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS                      
      None.                                      
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                      
    - INFORMAL CALENDAR                          
       None.                                     
          BOARD BILLS FOR                        
           THIRD READING                         
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                       
      None.                                      
            RESOLUTIONS                          
       - INFORMAL CALENDAR                       
      None.                                      
            FIRST READING                        
            OF BOARD BILLS                       
 Board Member Vollmer introduced by              
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 312                     
      An ordinance approving a blighting study    
and redevelopment plan dated January 28,          
2014 for the 5707-15 & 5725-27 Parc Ridge         
Way Redevelopment Area (as further defined        
herein, the "Plan") after finding that said       
Redevelopment Area ("Area") is blighted as        
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised          
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the             
"Statute" being Sections 99.300 to 99.715         
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a         
description of the boundaries of the Area in      
the City of St. Louis ("City"), attached hereto   
and incorporated herein as Attachment "A",        
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation     
of the Area is in the interest of the public      
health, safety, morals and general welfare of     
the people of the City; approving the Plan        
attached hereto and incorporated herein as        
Attachment "B", pursuant to Section 99.430        
RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a         
feasible financial plan for the redevelopment     
of the Area which affords maximum                 
opportunity for redevelopment of the Area         
by private enterprise; finding that no property   
in the Area may be acquired by the Land           
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the      
City of St. Louis ("LCRA"), a public body         
corporate and politic created under Missouri      
law, through the exercise of eminent domain;      
finding that none of the property within the      
Area is occupied, but if it should become         
occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined           
herein) shall be responsible for providing        
relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to     
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of   
implementation of the Plan; finding that          
financial aid may be necessary to enable the      
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with         
the Plan; finding that there shall be available   
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;  
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis        
Board of Aldermen ("Board") and requesting        
various officials, departments, boards and        
agencies of the City to cooperate and to          
exercise their respective powers in a manner      
consistent with the Plan; and containing a        
severability clause.                              
Board Member Vollmer introduced by                
request:                                          
           Board Bill No. 313                     
     An ordinance recommended by the Board        
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above   
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for       
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in a    
portion of Kemper beginning 82.34'west of         
Hereford and continuing 157.66 feet to a point    
previously vacated by Ordinance 68544 in          
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter   
 described, in accordance with Charter          
 authority, and in conformity with Section l4   
 of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing     
 certain conditions on such vacation.           
 Board Member Flowers introduced by             
 request:                                       
           Board Bill No. 314                   
      An ordinance approving the petition to    
 establish the Carrie Avenue Community          
 Improvement District, establishing the Carrie  
 Avenue Community Improvement District,         
 and finding a public purpose for the           
 establishment of the Carrie Avenue             
 Community Improvement District.                
 Board Member Schmid introduced by              
 request:                                       
           Board Bill No. 315                   
       An ordinance, recommended by the         
 Board of Estimate and Apportionment,           
 authorizing a supplemental appropriation;      
 amending Ordinance 69432, commonly             
 referred to as the City of St. Louis Annual    
 Operating Plan for Fiscal Year 2013-2014;      
 appropriating projected excess lead            
 remediation fund revenues to address certain   
 expenditures in the Building Division Lead     
 Remediation Program for the current fiscal     
 year, in the amount of Two Hundred Nine        
 Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($209,500)       
 as hereinafter detailed; and containing an     
 emergency clause.                              
    REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE                      
        OF BOARD BILLS                          
         Convention and Tourism                 
                 None.                          
   Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions           
                 None.                          
        Health and Human Services               
            Board Bill No. 315.                 
 Housing, Urban Development & Zoning            
                None.                           
         Intergovernmental Affairs              
                   None.                        
                 Legislation                    
                   None.                        
        Neighborhood Development                
            Board Bill No. 312.                 
    Parks and Environmental Matters             
                 None.                          
      Personnel and Administration              
                 None.                          
             Public Employees                   
                   None.                        
                Public Safety                   
                   None.                        
                Public Utilities                 
                    None.                        
         Streets, Traffic and Refuse             
             Board Bill No. 313.                 
      Transportation and Commerce                
                  None.                          
              Ways and Means                     
              Board Bill No. 314.                
  SECOND READING AND REPORT                      
    OF STANDING COMMITTEES                       
       Ms. Flowers of the Committee on Public    
 Utilities submitted the following report which  
 was read.                                       
     Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
 February 14, 2014.                              
      To the President of the Board of           
 Aldermen:                                       
      The Committee on Public Utilities to       
 whom was referred the following Board Bill,     
 report that they have considered the same and   
 recommend adoption.                             
            Board Bill No. 300                   
       An ordinance recommended by and           
 authorizing and directing the Board of Public   
 Service to let contracts, purchase materials,   
 equipment and supplies, employ labor, hire      
 consultants, pay fees, salaries and wages, and  
 do all things necessary to provide for building,
 facility and equipment improvements to the      
 Waterworks System of the City of St. Louis      
 Water Division by projects approved by the      
 Water Revenue Bonds (State of Missouri-         
 Direct Loan Program), Series 2013 issuance      
 in connection with the sale thereof to the      
 Missouri Department of Natural Resources,       
 as authorized by Ordinance Number 69504         
 approved July 11, 2013; to appropriate and      
 pay the estimated cost of Eight Million Dollars 
 ($8,000,000.00) from the Water Works            
 Contingent Account, pursuant to Section Five    
 Hundred Two (502) of Ordinance Number           
 63135 approved March 29, 1994, which costs      
 will be reimbursed to the Water Works           
 Contingent Account by the Missouri              
 Department of Natural Resources pursuant        
 to Ordinance Number 69504; containing           
 sections for description of the work, approval  
 of plans and specifications, work and material  
 guarantees, estimated expenditures, allocation  
 and reversion authorizations, reimbursement     
 authorization, applicable state and federal     
 wage rate requirements, equal opportunity       
 provisions, the Mayor's Executive Orders,       
 contract advertising statutes, and a public     
 work emergency clause.                          
      Alderwoman Flowers                         
      Chairman of the Committee                  
    Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on Ways        
and Means submitted the following report        
which was read.                                 
    Board of Aldermen Committee report,         
February 14, 2014.                              
     To the President of the Board of           
Aldermen:                                       
     The Committee on Ways and Means to         
whom was referred the following Board Bills,    
report that they have considered the same and   
recommend adoption.                             
          Board Bill No. 273                    
     An Ordinance, recommended by the           
Board of Public Service, authorizing and        
directing the Mayor and the Comptroller of      
the City of St. Louis to execute, upon receipt  
of and in consideration of the sum of One       
Dollar ($1.00), and other good and valuable     
consideration, a permanent, irrevocable         
Easement, which shall give, grant, extend and   
confer on The Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer      
District, its agents, successors, and assigns,  
the exclusive right to build and maintain a     
sewer or sewers, including storm water          
improvements, on the strip or strips of ground  
described, and in City Block 9115 and           
containing an emergency clause.                 
Board Member Young introduced by                
request:                                        
          Board Bill No. 289                    
     An Ordinance Approving The Petition        
Of An Owner Of Certain Real Property To         
Establish A Community Improvement               
District, Establishing The Magnolia             
Community Improvement District, Finding         
A Public Purpose For The Establishment Of       
The Magnolia Community Improvement              
District, Authorizing the Execution of a        
Transportation Project Agreement Between        
The City And The Magnolia Transportation        
Development District, Prescribing The Form      
And Details Of Said Agreement, Making           
Certain Findings With Respect Thereto,          
Authorizing Other Related Actions In            
Connection With The TDD Project, And            
Containing An Emergency Clause And              
Containing A Severability Clause.               
     Alderman Kennedy                           
     Chairman of the Committee                  
           REPORT OF                            
       SPECIAL COMMITTEES                       
     None.                                      
           PERFECTION                           
        CONSENT CALENDAR                        
    Mr. Roddy moved that the following          
Board Bill before the Board for perfection, be  
 perfected as reported out of Committee with      
 its recommendation "Do Pass": Board Bill No.     
 286.                                             
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                       
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.          
 BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION                       
      None.                                       
           THIRD READING                          
         CONSENT CALENDAR                         
      None.                                       
   THIRD READING, REPORT OF                       
 THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE                        
      AND FINAL PASSAGE                           
        OF BOARD BILLS                            
      None.                                       
         REPORT OF THE                            
     ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE                         
      None.                                       
      COURTESY RESOLUTIONS                        
        CONSENT CALENDAR                          
       President Reed introduced Resolutions      
 No. 225 through 229 and the Clerk was            
 instructed to read same.                         
           Resolution No. 225                     
  250th Birthday of the City of St. Louis         
       WHEREAS, legend has it that on or          
 about February 14, 1764, Rene' Auguste           
 Chouteau (more commonly Auguste                  
 Chouteau), a French lad 14 years old, co-        
 founded the great City of St. Louis with his     
 stepfather Pierre de Laclede Liguest (more       
 commonly Pierre Laclede) and 30 other men        
 who cleared a site at what would later become    
 the foot of Walnut Street and which had been     
 selected in November1763 as a fur trading        
 outpost to exercise a French fur trading         
 monopoly grant in the Missouri Region; and       
      WHEREAS, the selection of St. Louis         
 was political and practical from the beginning.  
 What was to be a fur trading outpost became      
 the Village of St. Louis when Fort de Chartes    
 on the east side of the Mississippi River,       
 where Pierre Laclede & Auguste Chouteau          
 were wintering, was turned over to the British   
 in 1763, so it was resolved to go to the west    
 bank of the Mississippi River, which they        
 believed to be controlled by France. Once        
 finding the area at the confluence of the        
 Missouri & Mississippi Rivers too marshy,        
 Pierre Laclede moved 15 miles downriver to       
 the first elevated and accessible site of        
 woodland and prairie area; and                   
      WHEREAS, the advantages of the site         
 of our City of St. Louis and its great region    
 have been known at least as far back as the      
 Mississippian Culture of the 8th to 12th         
 centuries with vestiges of that culture reflected
 in the remaining Cahokia Mounds in Illinois      
 and the one Sugar Loaf Mound remaining in        
 St. Louis from a network of Mounds that once     
 provided the appellation of our fair city as     
 Mound City. Pierre Laclede prophetically         
 pronounced (translated): "I HAVE FOUND           
 A SITUATION WHERE I AM GOING TO                  
 FORM A SETTLEMENT WHICH MIGHT                    
 BECOME, HEREAFTER, ONE OF THE                    
 FINEST CITIES IN AMERICA -- SO                   
 MANY ADVANTAGES ARE EMBRACED                     
 IN ITS SITE, BY ITS LOCALITY AND                 
 CENTRAL POSITION, FOR FORMING                    
 SETTLEMENTS."                                    
       WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis was         
 named after King Louis IX of France, patron      
 saint of King Louis XV, whom Pierre Laclede      
 had served as a soldier before leaving Bedous,   
 France; and                                      
        WHEREAS, the once small village of        
 St. Louis became the Gateway to the West         
 and the host of the Olympics and Louisiana       
 Purchase Exposition (World's Fair) in 1904;      
 it is now a center of commerce; transportation   
 hub; a progressing leader in biotechnology and   
 life sciences; host of medical research; center  
 of higher education; recognized entrepreneurial  
 center; known for financial services; home of    
 a world famous zoo, botanical garden, art        
 museum, and science center; and boasts a         
 number of Fortune 500 companies; and             
       WHEREAS, whether you call it a             
 sestercentennial, semiquincentennial, or         
 bicenquinquagenary, ST. LOUIS IS                 
 CELEBRATING ITS 250TH BIRTHDAY                   
 ON FEBRUARY 14, 2014, and preparing for          
 its better days to come.                         
       NOW THEREFORE BE IT                        
 RESOLVED that we pause in our                    
 deliberations to recognize the 250th birthday    
 of the City of St. Louis and the St. Louis       
 region. We hope that all will celebrate this     
 momentous occasion, take this opportunity        
 to be grateful for all of the blessings bestowed 
 on our region, and fly the flag of the City of   
 St. Louis. We further direct the Clerk of the    
 Board to spread a copy of this Resolution        
 across the minutes of the proceedings and        
 further to prepare two commemorative copies      
 to the end that one may be presented to the      
 full Board of Aldermen and the other to the      
 Mayor, both for permanent display in the         
 Board of Aldermen Chambers and City Hall         
 Rotunda, respectively.                           
 Introduced on the 14th day of February 14,       
 2014 by:                                         
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 14thWard          
Honorable JenniferFlorida,Alderwoman 15thWard     
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard       
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2ndWard       
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard    
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard        
HonorableTammikaHubbard,Alderwoman5thWard         
Honorable Christine Ingrassia,Alderwoman 6thWard  
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward        
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8thWard      
HonorableKennethA.Ortmann,Alderman9thWard         
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard         
Honorable ThomasVilla,Alderman 11th Ward          
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard         
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard      
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard          
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard            
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20thWard          
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21stWard      
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard       
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard         
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward        
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25thWard            
Honorable FrankWilliamson,Alderman 26thWard       
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard          
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard        
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen    
         Resolution No. 226                       
        Floyd Mayweather Jr.                      
     WHEREAS, Floyd Mayweather Jr. was            
born February 24, 1977 in Grand Rapids,           
Michigan; and                                     
     WHEREAS, Floyd, born into a family           
of boxers, started in the ring at an early age    
and has done nothing but excelled in it ever      
since; and                                        
     WHEREAS, after winning three national        
golden gloves titles and a medal at the           
Olympics in 1996, Floyd Mayweather turned         
professional on October 11, 1996; and             
      WHEREAS, in 1998, within two years          
of entering professional boxing, Mayweather       
became the first 1996 US Olympian to win a        
world title with an eighth-round technical        
knockout of Genaro Hernandez to become the        
WBC Super Featherweight Champ; and                
      WHEREAS, undefeated in his                  
professional career, Floyd Mayweather is a        
five-division world champion, having won          
eight world titles and the lineal championship    
in three different weight classes. He is a two-   
time Ring magazine Fighter of the Year was        
voted the Best Fighter ESPY Award in 2007,        
2008, 2010, 2012 and 2013; and                    
     WHEREAS, Mayweather is the WBC               
welterweight champion, WBA (Super) super          
welterweight champion, WBC Super                  
welterweight champion, current Ring #1            
 ranked welterweight, and Ring #1 ranked junior     
 middleweight, and also has the coveted, and        
 well deserved, rating of best pound-for-pound      
 boxer in the world; and                            
       WHEREAS, as excellent a businessman          
 as he is a prize fighter, Floyd "Money"            
 Mayweather topped the Forbes and Sports            
 Illustrated lists of the 50 highest-paid athletes  
 of 2012 and 2013 currently making him the          
 highest paid athlete in the world; and             
      WHEREAS, Floyd Mayweather is not              
 only the greatest boxer of his generation, but     
 he has greatly improved the financial              
 prospects of those in his profession, as he        
 has blazed a new economic path for current         
 and future fighters alike to follow.               
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of               
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our         
 deliberations to recognize the many                
 accomplishments and contributions of Floyd         
 Mayweather Jr. and we further direct the Clerk     
 of this Board to spread a copy of this             
 Resolution across the minutes of these             
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative         
 copy to the end that it may be presented to        
 our honoree at a time and place deemed             
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                        
 Introduced on the 7th day of February, 2014        
 by:                                                
 HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen     
 Honorable Samuel Moore,Alderman 4thWard            
            Resolution No. 227                      
 MAZE FEATURING FRANKIE BEVERLY                     
       WHEREAS, a native of Philadelphia,           
 Frankie Beverly grew up singing in church.         
 Frankie later formed a group called The            
 Butlers, eventually changing the name to           
 Frankie Beverly's Raw Soul. The band's star        
 began to rise when Marvin Gaye caught their        
 show and took them on the road as his opening      
 act. Gaye urged them to change their name          
 and Roame, one of the original members, came       
 up with the name Maze and the rest is music        
 history; and                                       
       WHEREAS, Maze featuring Frankie              
 Beverly arrived on the scene in 1977 with a        
 string of hits including Happy Feelings, Lady      
 of Magic, While I'm Alone and Workin'              
 `Together. The soul classics continued with        
 Golden Time of Day, Southern Girl, Joy and         
 Pain, We Are One, Running Away, Back In            
 Stride, Can't Get Over You, Silky Soul and         
 The Morning After; and                             
       WHEREAS, for more than 40 years,             
 MAZE featuring Frankie Beverly has stayed          
 in its lane, bringing quality music from the       
 heart night after night, establishing a trust with
 music lovers worldwide. Fans know when            
 they attend a Maze concert they will be treated   
 to an evening of honest, raw soul music, with     
 no gimmicks, no stage tricks, just Beverly with   
 his smooth, soulful vocals supported by the       
 tight Maze band; and                              
      WHEREAS, Beverly's biggest                   
 inspirations Frankie Lymon, Sam Cooke and         
 another original Maze member the late             
 McKinley "Bug" Williams, who played               
 percussions and sang background, had              
 tremendous impact on Beverly for their            
 commitment to fans. To this day, he always        
 makes time for his fans, family and friends by    
 being kind and patient just as those legends      
 were that came before him; and                    
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for             
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize Frankie Beverly and    
 Maze for their contributions and selfless         
 dedication to the sound of soul music, and the    
 years of love they have shown to St. Louis        
 and we further direct the Clerk of this Board     
 to prepare a commemorative copy of this           
 resolution to the end that it may be presented    
 to our honorees at a time and place deemed        
 appropriate by the sponsor.                       
 Introduced on the 14th day of February, 2014      
 by:                                               
 HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen    
 HonorableAntonio French,Alderman 21stWard         
            Resolution No. 228                     
 Al Colbert and St. Louis MusicFest                
       WHEREAS, Al Colbert is happily              
 married to, Monica Colbert, and they have         
 celebrated ten years of marriage. Al and          
 Monica have four beautiful children together,     
 Alejandro II, Mariah, Alexa and Alexander.        
 While attending Texas Southern University,        
 Mr. Colbert hatched the idea to create a          
 different tax service company that catered to     
 people's individual needs. In 1995 the first      
 Colbert/Ball Tax Service office was opened;       
 and                                               
       WHEREAS, Al Colbert, the Founder            
 and CEO of America's largest and most             
 recognized African-American tax service           
 company, has taken his childhood dream and        
 erected a multi-million dollar franchise with     
 over 350 offices in 23 states. Mr. Colbert's      
 desire to make life better for family and friends 
 has driven him with relentless fervor; and        
      WHEREAS, Al Colbert has                      
 triumphantly unearthed the perfect mix for        
 entrepreneurship. Mr. Colbert and business        
 partner, Ja Ja Ball, pride themselves on quality  
products, quality service, and quality              
employees. This unique approach to tax              
service in the minority community has proven        
to be a great success; and                          
     WHEREAS, Mr. Colbert is a proud                
member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity                
Incorporated and because of his philanthropic       
and business efforts, Mr. Colbert has received      
awards from Ebony Magazine, YMCA                    
Outstanding Achievement Award, and Black            
Enterprise's Special Achievement Award for          
Franchising. He was also the winner of the          
Prestigious Pinnacle Award for Top African          
American businesses in Houston. Colbert/Ball        
was recently ranked in Entrepreneur                 
Magazine's Franchise 500; and                       
     WHEREAS, Mr.Colbert built a sister             
company, Coball Entertainment in 2007 an            
entertainment conglomerate which has had            
tremendous success and attributes all of his        
personal and professional growth to placing         
God first and dedication to excellence in all       
endeavors.                                          
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                           
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of                
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our          
deliberations to recognize Al Colbert and the       
St.Louis Music Fest and wish him continued          
success and we further direct the Clerk of this     
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution           
across the minutes of these proceedings and         
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end          
that it may be presented to our honoree at a        
time and place deemed appropriate by the            
Sponsor.                                            
Introduced on the 14th day of February, 2014        
by:                                                 
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen      
HonorableAntonio French,Alderman 21stWard           
           Resolution No. 229                       
 Daryel Oliver and St. Louis MusicFest              
     WHEREAS, Daryel Parker Oliver, is the          
oldest male in his family of six. His additional    
families are the heirs to the late great trumpeter  
Miles Davis; through Miles' first wife Irene        
Davis Oliver. He attended Soldan High School,       
Washington University and later Morehouse           
College, and became a professional model            
spending much of his time in New York; and          
      WHEREAS, Oliver, became a member              
of Atlanta based Taurus Production a leading        
African American Concert company and has            
toured around the world for two decades. He         
became the head of marketing in the Mid             
Atlantic for Polygram Records based in              
Washington D.C., now known as Universal             
Records. Oliver's most memorable project was        
working directly with Coretta Scott King,           
 widow of Dr. Martin Luther King, as lead          
 producer of the first MLK Benefit Concert in      
 Atlanta; and                                      
        WHEREAS, Oliver, is recognized as the      
 first African American to be hired by St. Louis   
 based Contemporary Productions, which is          
 now Live Nation. He has been instrumental in      
 producing some of the greatest concerts and       
 events and new artist while touring. He has       
 produced many successful projects and teamed      
 with a number of elite entertainment              
 companies such as the St. Louis based             
 Platinum Group with Leta and Jacque Land;         
 and                                               
       WHEREAS, Oliver's, mission is to            
 create economic diversity in the State of         
 Missouri and City of St. Louis for African        
 Americans along with strengthening the            
 entertainment industry growth and awareness       
 in Missouri as well as the United States. Oliver  
 tributes his success to his sister, the late      
 Mondee Oliver, lead female vocalist for           
 international jazz musician Roy Ayers, and        
 stands true to the industry.                      
      NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
 RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of              
 the City of St. Louis that we pause in our        
 deliberations to recognize Daryel Oliver and      
 the St. Louis Music Fest and wish him             
 continued success and we further direct the       
 Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this      
 Resolution across the minutes of these            
 proceedings and to prepare a commemorative        
 copy to the end that it may be presented to       
 our honoree at a time and place deemed            
 appropriate by the Sponsor.                       
 Introduced on the 14th day of February, 2014      
 by:                                               
 HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen    
 HonorableAntonio French,Alderman 21stWard         
      Unanimous consent having been                
 obtained Resolutions No. 225 through 229          
 stood considered.                                 
      President Reed moved that Resolutions        
 No. 225 through 229 be adopted, at this           
 meeting of the Board.                             
      Seconded by Mr. Cohn.                        
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
             FIRST READING                         
            OF RESOLUTIONS                         
      None.                                        
           SECOND READING                          
           OF RESOLUTIONS                          
      Mr. Moore introduced Resolution No.          
 223 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.    
           Resolution No. 223                    
      WHEREAS, the Red, Black and Green,         
 was first established August 13, 1920 by the    
 Universal Negro Improvement Association         
 (UNIA), then centered in Harlem, New York       
 during the Harlem Renaissance as a way to       
 denote and highlight Africa and her people;     
 and                                             
       WHEREAS, the flag is tri-color            
 consisting of three equal portions from top to  
 bottom. The red represents the blood that       
 unites all people of Black African ancestry.    
 The Black represents black people whose         
 existence as a nation, though not a nation-     
 state and the green represents the abundant     
 natural wealth of Africa; and                   
       WHEREAS, UNIA was the largest             
 African - American based self-help and self-    
 reliance organization of its time in the western
 hemisphere with chapters in the United States,  
 the Caribbean, Central and South America later  
 establishing chapters throughout Africa, and    
       WHEREAS, the Red, Black and Green,        
 as it was officially called by UNIA, over the   
 years, came to represent freedom and            
 liberation and grew in great popularity during  
 the movement for equality, cultural expression  
 and self-determination, economic                
 opportunity, and the ending of discrimination   
 during the justice movement of the 1960s and    
 70s, and                                        
       WHEREAS, some combination of the          
 basic colors of this flag have been incorporated
 into the national flags of nearly every newly   
 independent African and Caribbean nation        
 after they fought and won their freedom from    
 colonial rule, and                              
       WHEREAS, The Republic of South            
 Africa was the most recent African Nation       
 freed from racial discrimination brought on     
 by colonialism to incorporate these colors into 
 their new united flag of a free South Africa,   
 and                                             
       WHEREAS, the Red, Black and Green         
 has also become one of the symbols of African-  
 American History Month representing the         
 rich culture, contributions, achievements and   
 struggles the African-American experience, and  
       WHEREAS, the Red, Black and Green         
 is used, displayed and flown in various public  
 places throughout the United States during      
 African-American History Month including        
 public schools, government offices, churches,   
 business and organizations as a way to both     
 represent and celebrate the rich history and    
 contributions African- Americans have made      
 to the world and the American experience.       
     NOW THEREFORE BE IT                          
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for             
the City of St. Louis that we direct the City     
to prominently display the Red, Black and         
Green at, in and outside of City Hall each        
year during the month of February (African-       
American History Month) to recognize and          
celebrate the many contributions that Black       
Americans have made and are still making to       
make America the great country that it is today.  
Introduced on the 7th day of February, 2014       
by:                                               
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard        
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen    
Honorable SharonTyus,Alderwoman 1stWard           
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2ndWard       
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard    
HonorableTammikaHubbard,Alderwoman5thWard         
Honorable Christine Ingrassia,Alderwoman 6thWard  
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward        
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard         
Honorable ThomasVilla,Alderman 11th Ward          
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard         
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14thWard        
Honorable JenniferFlorida,Alderwoman 15thWard     
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard          
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard            
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard       
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20thWard          
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21stWard      
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard       
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard         
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25thWard            
Honorable FrankWilliamson,Alderman 26thWard       
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard          
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard        
     Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution No.        
223 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.      
     Seconded by Mr. Schmid.                      
     Carried unanimously by voice vote.           
       MISCELLANEOUS AND                          
       UNFINISHED BUSINESS                        
     None.                                        
          ANNOUNCEMENTS                           
     None.                                        
        EXCUSED ALDERMEN                          
     Mr. Kennedy moved to excuse the              
following aldermen due to their necessary         
absence: Mr. Bosley, Mr. Moore, Ms.               
Hubbard, Ms. Ingrassia, Ms. Young and Mr.         
French.                                           
     Seconded by Ms. Krewson.                     
     Carried by voice vote.                       
             ADJOURNMENT                          
     Mr. Kennedy moved to adjourn under           
 rules to return February 21, 2014.             
      Seconded by Mr. Villa.                    
      Carried unanimously by voice vote.        
      Respectfully submitted,                   
      David W. Sweeney                          
      Clerk, Board of Aldermen                  
   BOARD OF                                     
 PUBLIC SERVICE                                 
         REGULAR MEETING                        
   St. Louis, MO - February 18, 2014            
      The Board met at 1:45 p.m.                
      Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,    
 Rice-Walker, Gray and President Bradley.       
      Absent: Directors Bess and Siedhoff.      
 (excused)                                      
      Requests of the Directors of Parks,       
 Recreation and Forestry and Human Services     
 to be excused from the Regular Meeting of      
 February 18, 2014 was read and leaves of       
 absence granted.                               
      Minutes of the Regular Meeting of         
 February 11, 2014 were unanimously             
 approved.                                      
       Communications, reports, recommenda-     
 tions and documents were submitted by Board    
 Members and action thereon taken as follows:   
               PRESIDENT                        
       Draft of the following ordinance         
 transmitted with the recommendation that it    
 be approved, by this Board, and the Secretary  
 instructed to forward same to the Board of     
 Alderman with the recommendation that it be    
 passed:                                        
      "A Board Bill authorizing the Director    
 of Airports and the Comptroller to enter into  
 and execute for the City of Saint Louis an     
 Agreement and Contract of Sale for the         
 Exchange of property located in the City of    
 Kinloch to the Memorial Tabernacle Baptist     
 Church to Preserve the heritage and legacy of  
 the Family of Harrold, etc."                   
      Proposed contract and bond ordered        
 approved as follows:                           
      Letting No. 8533 - Concrete and Brick     
 Removal/Replacement and Complete               
 Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-99,      
 Crafton Contracting Company, 102 Crafton       
 Drive, O'Fallon, Missouri 63366, Contract      
 No. 19888                                      
 PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF                    
 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS                  
       Application No. 120081, Metropolitan    
 St. Louis Sewer District (MSD), construct     
 manholes on existing sanitary sewer force     
 mains at the Louisiana, Arsenal and Utah      
 pump stations along the Mississippi flood     
 wall, as part of the Consent Decree MSD and   
 the EPA agree upon in April 2012 ordered      
 approved, subject to certain conditions.      
     DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC                       
  UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY                  
       2 Permits ordered approved, subject to  
 certain conditions as follows: 120155, Bennish
 Construction Company, consolidate land at     
 2026-28 Ann in C.B. 1387 and, 120156, Fenix   
 Fund LLC, for boundary adjustment at 4384-    
 86 Olive in C.B. 4581N.                       
       DIRECTOR OF STREETS                     
       Application No. 120141, Holly Ground    
 Collaborative, encroach with banners on 3     
 light poles at 475 North Kingshighway, 4733   
 Washington and Waterman and Kingshighway      
 ordered approved.                             
          DIRECTOR OF                          
      PARKS, RECREATION AND                    
             FORETRY                           
      Application No. 120131, J and M          
 Display, amend permit to conduct firework     
 display February 18, 2014 ordered approved,   
 subject to certain conditions.                
     DIRECTORS OF PARKS,                       
   RECREATION AND FORESTRY                     
   AND HEATLH AND HOSPITALS                    
      Application No. 120069, Entertainment    
 St. Louis Inc., hold event February 18, 2014  
 in Forest Park at the bottom of Art Hill      
 adjoining two parking lots ordered approved,  
 subject to certain conditions.                
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY                   
      10 Conditional Use Permits ordered       
 approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer, 
 per Board Order No. 766, seconded by the      
 Director of Public Safety.                    
       1 approved:                             
       120158, 4530 Parkview, construct        
 commercial building (per plans) for office and
 education                                     
       9 approved with conditions:             
      120159, 2619 1/2 Cherokee, carryout      
 coffee, teas, pastries, retail sales and no   
 cooking,                                      
      120160, 3722 Roswell, general            
 contracting business (office use only) home   
 occupancy wavier,                             
      120161, 2626 Cherokee, retail sales and  
 antique furniture,                            
      120162, 2327 Gravois, gas station,         
convenience store with 5% package liquor,        
new cell phones (change of ownership)            
      120163, 4301-03 Manchester, interior       
and exterior alterations (per plans) for bank    
and drive thru with walk up ATM,                 
      120164, 3739 Page, interior and exterior   
alterations (per plans) for daycare,             
      120165, 3128 Morganford, retail sales,     
tea room, full drink bar and cooking,            
      120166, 4249 Michigan, client direct       
services-in home care business,                  
      120167, 2901 Salena, full drink bar,       
restaurant, sit-down, carryout, sidewalk         
seating, 1st floor with extending hours of       
operation.                                       
      Application No. 120056, AT and T, to       
start at a manhole at the intersection of        
Shenandoah & Menard at the side of 2222          
Menard and bore and place one 2" poly pipe       
with fiber cable inside north for 94', 12' off   
edge of pavement then turn east for 23' going    
onto customer property at front 2222 Menard.     
This placement is for new fiber service at 2222  
Menard ordered tabled.                           
      Conditional Use No. 120148, operate a      
commercial photography (office use only)         
home occupancy wavier at 6817 Wise taken         
off of the table.                                
     Conditional Use No. 120148, to operate      
a commercial photography (office use only)       
home occupancy wavier at 6817 Wise ordered       
approved.                                        
    Addendum No. 1 to Agenda Items for           
February 18, 2014 ordered approved.              
     Agenda Items for February 18, 2014          
ordered approved.                                
    The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,         
February 25, 2014.                               
                Richard T. Bradley, P.E.         
                President                        
ATTEST:                                          
                Cherise D. Thomas                
                Secretary                        
       CITY OF ST. LOUIS                         
    BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE                      
      REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS                 
for PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING                     
SERVICES FOR DESIGN OF                           
NORTH BROADWAY IMPROVE-                          
MENTS, THRUSH AVENUE TO                          
WALTER AVENUE, FEDERAL PROJECT                   
STP-9900(665), ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.              
Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00         
P.M., CT, MARCH 6, 2014 at Board of Public       
 Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City Hall,            
 St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be obtained             
 from website www.stl-bps.org, under On Line          
 Plan Room, or call Bette Behan at 314-589-           
 6214. 18% DBE participation goal.                    
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                       
       There will be a public hearing held by         
 the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on              
 Wednesday, March 5, 2014 in Room 400 City            
 Hall to consider the following:                      
       APPEAL #10354 - Appeal filed by J &            
 S Convenience Store, from the determination          
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of        
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant          
 to install one illuminated wall sign, per plans,     
 at 5504 Natural Bridge. WARD 22                      
 #AB510817-13 ZONE: "G" - Local                       
 Commercial and Office District                       
       APPEAL #10355 - Appeal filed by                
 Spring Leaf Financial, from the determination        
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of        
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant          
 to do interior alterations, per plans, for a short-  
 term loan establishment at 5811 Chippewa.            
 WARD 23 #AB511348-14 ZONE: F" -                      
 Neighborhood Commercial District                     
       APPEAL #10356 - Appeal filed by                
 American Home Solutions Inc, from the                
 determination of the Building Commissioner           
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing       
 the Appellant to do exterior alterations by          
 constructing a deck and handrail, per plans, at      
 2145 S. Jefferson. WARD 6 #AB510211-13               
 ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial                  
 District                                             
       APPEAL #10357 - Appeal filed by                
 James A. Fredericks, from the determination          
 of the Building Commissioner in the denial of        
 a building permit authorizing the Appellant          
 to construct a parking lot with a retention          
 pond, per plans, zoning only, at 4821 Palm.          
 WARD 1 #AB510984-13 ZONE: "B" - Two                  
 Family Dwelling District                             
      APPEAL #10339 - Appeal filed by The             
 Edge Group, from the determination of the            
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a             
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to         
 construct a parking lot, per plans, zoning only,     
 4001-13 Laclede. (Table) WARD 17                     
 AB510114-13 ZONE: CWE-FBD                            
 Neighborhood Center Type 1 CWE-FBD                   
 Neighborhood General Type 3                          
       *APPEAL #10289 - Appeal filed by               
 Dean A. Wenz Architects, from the                    
 determination of the Building Commissioner           
 in the denial of a building permit authorizing       
 the Appellant to construct a multiple family  
 building, zoning only, at 4034 West Pine Blvd.
 (Modification-Table)           WARD        17 
 #AB509486-13 ZONE: CWE-FBD Neigh-             
 borhood Center Type 1 CWE-FBD                 
 Neighborhood General Type 3                   
      In accordance with the provisions of     
 Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.     
     By authority of the Board of              
 Adjustment.                                   
      S. Cunningham, Chairman                  
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                
      There will be a public hearing held by   
 the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on       
 Wednesday, March 12, 2014 in Room 400         
 City Hall to consider the following:          
      APPEAL #10358 - Appeal filed by          
 Starz Salon LLC, from the determination of    
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an 
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant    
 to operate a unisex beauty and barber salon at
 4445 Virginia. WARD 25 #AO511505-14           
 ZONE: "B" - Two Family Dwelling               
 District                                      
      APPEAL #10359 - Appeal filed by          
 Retro Image Apparel Two LLC, from the         
 determination of the Building Commissioner    
 in the denial of an occupancy permit          
 authorizing the Appellant to operate an office
 to warehouse wholesale bicycle jerseys with   
 online retail sales at 6425 Hampton. WARD     
 16 #AO511571-14 ZONE: "F" -                   
 Neighborhood Commercial District              
       APPEAL #10360 - Appeal filed by D/      
 B/A Snarf's, from the determination of the    
 Building Commissioner in the denial of an     
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant    
 to operate a sit-down/carryout restaurant with
 a front summer garden and 22% beer and wine   
 at 374 S. Grand Blvd. WARD 19                 
 #AO511635-14 ZONE: "D" - Multiple             
 Family Dwelling District                      
      APPEAL #10361 - Appeal filed by St.      
 Louis Auto House, from the determination of   
 the Building Commissioner in the denial of an 
 occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant    
 to operate an auto sales office with outside  
 storage of autos, at 1721-27 Union. WARD      
 22 #AO511626-14 ZONE: "F" -                   
 Neighborhood Commercial District              
       APPEAL #10362 - Appeal filed by Jazz    
 at the Bistro, from the determination of the  
 Building Commissioner in the denial of a      
 building permit authorizing the Appellant to  
 do interior alterations, per plans, for a jazz
nightclub with music lessons, zoning only, at   
3536-38 and 3840 Washington Blvd. WARD          
19 #AB511353-14 ZONE: "A" -                     
Single Family Dwelling District                 
#AB511354-14                                    
      APPEAL #10363 - Appeal filed by           
Stephen & Mary Troll, from the determination    
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of   
a building permit authorizing the Appellant     
to construct a detached garage, per plans, at   
3416-20 Commonwealth. WARD 24                   
#AB510778-13 ZONE: "A" - Single                 
Family Dwelling District                        
      APPEAL #10348 - Appeal filed by Mid       
America Transplant Services, from the           
determination of the Building Commissioner      
in the denial of a building permit authorizing  
the Appellant to install one illuminated wall   
sign, per plans, at 1110 E Highlands Plaza.     
(Table) WARD 17 #AB510739-13 ZONE:              
"H" - Area Commercial District                  
     In accordance with the provisions of       
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.       
    By authority of the Board of                
Adjustment.                                     
     S. Cunningham, Chairman                    
 PUBLIC NOTICE                                  
     A Conditional Use Hearing will be held     
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on           
Thursday March 6, 2014 on the following         
conditional uses:                               
    3667 Wilmington - Home Occupancy            
Waiver - E & E Painting (Painting/Office Use    
Only) "B" Two Family Dwelling District.         
Ah Ward 13                                      
     5233 Robert - Home Occupancy               
Waiver-B King Roofing N Exteriors (Roofing/     
Office Use Only) "A" Single Family Dwelling     
District. Ah Ward 12                            
     1510 Mc Causland - Home Occupancy          
Waiver-Amarie (On Line Sales/Drop               
Shipping/Clothing /Books/Office Use Only)       
"A" Single Family Dwelling District. Ah         
Ward 24                                         
     4854 Fountain - Home Occupancy             
Waiver-Rock'n Candy Beyound (Retail/Office      
Use Only) "B" Two Family Dwelling               
District. Ah Ward 18                            
     3320 Minnesota - Home Occupancy            
Waiver-Blase Trees, LLC (Arboriculture/         
Office Use Only) "B" Two Family Dwelling        
District. Ah Ward 9                             
     3525 Watson - #AO-511209-14-Joy of         
 Yoga, LLC (Yoga Studio/Retail Sales/Yoga           
 Mates/Blocks/T-Shirts/1 st fl/Bsmnt)"F"            
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Ah Ward          
 23                                                 
      4850 Natural Bridge - AB-510985-13-           
 Polsinelli (Construct Commercial Building/         
 Parking Lot per plans for Retail Sales)" F " -     
 Neighborhood Commercial District. Bl Ward          
 1                                                  
  PUBLIC NOTICE                                     
      A Conditional Use Hearing will NOT            
 be held in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on      
 Thursday March 13, 2014.                           
 DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  PERSONNEL                                         
     NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS                         
      The City of St. Louis, Department of          
 Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,           
 announces competitive Civil Service                
 examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal    
 Service.                                           
       The last date for filing an application for  
 the following examinations is MARCH 14,            
 2014.                                              
            EPIDEMIOLOGIST                          
             Prom./O.C. 2110                        
 $54,860 to $83,382 (Annual Salary Range)           
        PARK RANGER (ARMED)                         
              Prom./O.C. 2113                       
 $27,924 to $42,250 (Annual Salary Range)           
           POLICE PLANNER I                         
             Prom./O.C. 2114                        
 $36,400 to $55,224 (Annual Salary Range)           
      Applications for the following                
 examinations will be accepted until a sufficient   
 number are received to fill anticipated            
 vacancies. Please submit application as soon       
 as possible.                                       
                LIFEGUARD                           
                 O.C.C. 2111                        
            $10.10 (Hourly Salary)                  
      LIFEGUARD SUPERVISOR                          
              Prom./O.C.C. 2112                     
            $11.85 (Hourly Salary)                  
      Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,            
 Social Security, and Employee Retirement           
 System Benefits privileges are provided in         
 addition to salary.                                
       Application forms and further             
 information concerning duties of positions,     
 desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
 weights of examination components, and          
 duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
 office of the Department of Personnel, 1114     
 Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO           
 63101. Applications can be submitted on the     
 Internet. Visit the City web site at            
 http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.  
                  Richard R. Frank,              
                  Director                       
 February 19, 2014                               
 ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE                 
 LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN                 
          NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS                    
           LIVING WAGE RATES                     
         EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2013                 
 In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the     
 St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance                 
 ("Ordinance") and the Regulations associated    
 therewith, the City Compliance Official for     
 the City of St. Louis has determined that the   
 following living wage rates are now in effect   
 for employees of covered contracts:             
    1)    Where health benefits as defined in    
          the Ordinance are provided to the      
          employee, the living wage rate is      
          $12.21 per hour (130% of the federal   
          poverty level income guideline for a   
          family of three); and                  
    2)    Where health benefits as defined in    
          the Ordinance are not provided to      
          the employee, the living wage rate is  
          $15.92 per hour (130% of the federal   
          poverty level income guideline for a   
          family of three, plus fringe benefit   
          rates as defined in the Ordinance).    
    3)    Wages required under Chapter 6.20      
          of the Revised Code of the City of     
          St. Louis: $3.71 per hour.             
 These rates are based upon federal poverty      
 level income guidelines as defined in the       
 Ordinance and these rates are effective as of   
 April 1, 2013. These rates will be further      
 adjusted periodically when the federal poverty  
 level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.  
 Department of Health and Human Services or      
 pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code    
 of the City of St. Louis.                       
 The Ordinance applies to employers who are      
 covered by the Ordinance as defined in the      
 Ordinance, where the contract or grant is       
entered into or renewed after the effective date  
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.      
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online      
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or             
obtained from:                                    
         City Compliance Official                 
 Lambert-St. Louis International Airport(R)       
   Certification and Compliance Office            
              P.O. Box 10212                      
           St. Louis, Mo 63145                    
              (314) 426-8111                      
Dated: February 12, 2013                          
NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS                             
     CITY ORDINANCE requires that any             
individual or company who performs work           
within the City limits must obtain a Business     
License. This would also apply to businesses      
who employ sales or delivery personnel to         
come into the City. Contracts requiring work      
to be performed in the City will NOT be           
awarded to unlicensed businesses.                 
ST. LOUIS LIVING                                  
WAGE ORDINANCE                                    
  LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS                        
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that      
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597        
and associated Regulations apply to the           
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial      
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are      
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires      
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all       
individuals who perform work pursuant to a        
contract executed between the successful          
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]        
must be paid a minimum of the applicable          
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached       
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are       
adjusted during the term of the contract          
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates       
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder        
[proponent] must submit the attached "Living      
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance                
Declaration" with the bid [proposal]. Failure     
to submit this Declaration with the bid           
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid    
[proposal]. A successful bidder 's                
[proponent's] failure to comply with contract     
provisions related to the Living Wage             
Ordinance may result in termination of the        
contract and the imposition of additional         
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and       
Regulations.                                      
      Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations     
 are available upon request from La Queta         
 Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be     
 accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living          
 wage.                                            
    SUPPLY                                        
 COMMISSIONER                                     
 Office of the Supply Commissioner,               
 Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,         
 St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,              
 FEBRUARY 25, 2014 - INFORMAL and                 
 ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the          
 undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00  
 o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the  
 dates specified.                                 
     THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 2014                      
   3M Floor Finish Applicator Kit                 
 per Requisition #32014Q0038. (LC)                
                   T-Shirts                       
 per Requisition #21414Q0055. (JC)                
      Poinsettia Rooted Cuttings                  
 per Requisition #22014Q0129. (LC)                
              Actuator, Valve                     
 per Requisition #22014Q0130. (BF)                
     Miscellaneous Supplies for                   
         Fire Dept. Training                      
 per Requisition #61114Q0136. (BF)                
        Nylon Tie Down Straps                     
 per Requisition #41514Q1134. (BF)                
      TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 2014                     
       Floor Scrubber/Polisher                    
 per Requisition #32014Q0039. (LC)                
          AFFF Class B Foam                       
 per Requisition #61114Q0135. (JC)                
     Airport Passenger Shelters                   
 per Requisition #42014Q0285. (JC)                
        Adjustable Galvanized                     
            Shoring Posts                         
 per Requisition #41514Q1125. (BF)                
          Miscellaneous Steel                     
 per Requisition #41514Q1135. (BF)                
      Notice to All Suppliers                     
       It is the policy of the City of St. Louis  
 that all firms desiring to do business with the  
 City of St. Louis must comply with               
 employment practices that are in accordance      
 with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis   
 and the Mayor's Executive Order promulgated    
 there-under to the end that all Contractors    
 and suppliers of materials and services will   
 offer equal opportunity for employment and     
 job advancement to blacks and other minority   
 groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.     
              Obtaining Bids                    
       To download bids log on to: http://      
 stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm then,    
 search available bids.                         
     You may also contact the Supply            
 Commissioner's office at (314) 622-4580 or     
 e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com.          
       Bidders are invited to be present at the 
 opening of bids. Bid results may be available  
 30 days following the date of bid opening.     
 If you desire bid results, please include a    
 self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.  
           Recycled Products                    
      The City of St. Louis desires to          
 purchase recycled products whenever            
 possible, especially items containing post     
 consumer waste materials. If your company      
 can supply recycled products, please provide   
 information to this office.                    
            Surplus Property                    
      Notice is hereby given that the City of   
 St. Louis may have surplus property for sale   
 during the course of the year. The property    
 may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the    
 City Journal.                                  
          Local Preference                      
             ORDINANCE #69431                   
              Board Bill No. 295                
     Committee Substitute As Amended            
       An Ordinance repealing Section One,      
 part 86.040 of Ordinance 56716, pertaining     
 to the opening of bids, codified as Section    
 5.58.040 of the Revised Code of the City of    
 St. Louis, and enacting a new provision on the 
 same subject matter which allows a local bidder
 to match the lowest bid when the lowest bid    
 is from a non-local bidder; enacting a new     
 provision on the same subject matter;          
 containing severability clause.                
       WHEREAS, local businesses which seek     
 to enter into contracts with the City of St.   
 Louis are at a competitive disadvantage with   
 businesses from other areas because of the     
 higher administrative costs of doing business  
 in the City;                                   
      WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis            
 desires to encourage businesses to remain in   
 the City and to relocate to the City;          
      WHEREAS, by enacting a local              
preference law that allows a local firm to match   
the lowest bid when its bid is within 2%           
percent of the lowest bid, the City hopes to       
encourage and stimulate local business.            
     BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF                 
ST. LOUIS AS FOLLOWS:                              
     SECTION ONE. Section One, part                
86.040, Ordinance 56716 is hereby repealed.        
     SECTION TWO. Enacted in lieu                  
thereof is the following new section.              
     5.58.040 - Opening of bids.                   
      A. Proposals shall be opened at the time     
and place fixed by the advertisement, in the       
presence of such bidders as desire to be           
present, and shall be open to the inspection       
of bidders.                                        
      B. The bids shall not be materially          
modified or amended as to price, specification     
or otherwise, nor substitutions placed thereon,    
after opening except when the lowest bid is        
from a non-local bidder. When the lowest bid       
is from a non-local bidder, any local bidder       
within two percent of the lowest bid may           
match the lowest bid. If a local bidder matches    
the lowest bid, then the Supply Commissioner       
may select the bid from the local bidder. If       
more than one local bidder is within two           
percent of the lowest bid, then only the lowest    
local bidder may match the bid. In all other       
circumstances, modification, supplementation       
or amendment shall cause rejection of the bid.     
For purposes of this chapter, local bidder         
means a bidder whose principal place of            
business is within the City of St. Louis, has      
had a valid business license for at least one      
year, and is current in payment of local taxes.    
Principal place of business shall be defined as    
the business's physical office, plant, or site     
where a majority (51%) of the full-time            
employees, chief officer, and managers of the      
business regularly work and conduct business,      
or where the plant or office and equipment         
required for the furnishing of the goods or        
performance of the services provided to the        
City, as required by the contract, are physically  
located in the City of St. Louis for at least one  
taxable year immediately prior to the date of      
the bid.                                           
      C. Bids may be for one or more or all the    
articles advertised for, but there shall be a      
specific bid on each article. The award may be     
made to the lowest bidder for any article, or      
to the lowest bidder for the entire requisition    
or any part thereof, but the Board of              
Standardization may reject any or all bids or      
any part of any bid.                               
     SECTION THREE. Severability.                  
       The provisions of this section are      
 severable. If any provision of this ordinance 
 is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
 affect other provisions of the ordinance which
 can be given effect without the invalid       
 provision.                                    
 Approved: April 29, 2013                      
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved                                      
                 Carol L. Shepard, CPA         
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis-mo.gov            
       The provisions of this section are      
 severable. If any provision of this ordinance 
 is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
 affect other provisions of the ordinance which
 can be given effect without the invalid       
 provision.                                    
 Approved: April 29, 2013                      
      The right to reject any and all bids is  
 reserved                                      
                 Carol L. Shepard, CPA         
                 Supply Commissioner           
                 (314) 622-4580                
                 www.stlouis-mo.gov            
