The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $26.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri

Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2003-2004
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, September 19, 2003.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers, September 19, 2003.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Smith,
Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-Griffin, Reed,
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Heitert, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Jones-King, Boyd, Bauer, Kirner,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 25

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUEST
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
None.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk of
the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
City Hall Room 200
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, Mo 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061

September 9, 2003
Honorable Board of Aldermen
City Hall Room 230
St. Louis, MO 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individual for
appointment to the Westminster/Lake Special
Business District:
The appointment of Les Wright, who
resides at 5062 Westminster, 63108, and who
will represent the owners of real property in
the District. His term will expire on
December 31, 2006, replacing Paula Littleton.
May I ask for your Honorable Board's
favorable consideration of this appointment.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Ms. Krewson moved to approve the
appointment of Les Wright to the
Westminster/Lake Special Business District
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Office of the Mayor
City Hall Room 200
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, Mo 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061
September 9, 2003
Honorable Board of Aldermen
City Hall Room 230
St. Louis, MO 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individual for
reappointment to the Waterman/Lake Special
Business District:
The reappointment of Larry Wilson,
who resides at 5102 Waterman, 63108, and
who will represent the owners of real property
in the District. His term will expire on
December 31, 2006.
May I ask for your Honorable Board's
favorable consideration of this appointment.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Ms. Krewson moved to approve the
appointment of Larry Wilson to the Waterman/
Lake Special Business District
Seconded by Ms. Florida.

Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Office of the Mayor
City Hall Room 200
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, Mo 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061
September 9, 2003
Honorable Board of Aldermen
City Hall Room 230
St. Louis, MO 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individuals for
appointment to the Washington Place Special
Business District:
The appointment of Ivan Schraeder,
who resides at 5267 Washington, 63108, and
who will represent the owners of real property
in the District. His term will expire on
December 31, 2006, replacing Cynthia Akos.
The appointment of Robert Bealle, who
resides at 5083 Washington Avenue, 63108,
and who will represent the owners of real
property in the District. His term will expire
on December 31, 2006, replacing Chester
Hines.
The appointment of Chester Hines, who
resides at 5283 Washington Avenue, 63108,
and who will represent the owners of real
property in the District. His term will expire
on December 31, 2006, replacing Chester
Hines.
The appointment of John Johans, who
resides at 5261 Washington Place, 63108, and
who will represent the renters in the District.
His term will expire on December 31, 2005,
replacing Trudy Smith.
The appointment of William Latz, who
resides at 5058 Washington Place, 63108, and
who will represent the renters in the District.
His term will expire on December 31, 2004,
replacing Rosemary Kaskowitz.
May I ask for your Honorable Board's
favorable consideration of these
appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Ms. Krewson moved to approve the
appointment of Ivan Schraeder, Robert Bealle,
Chester Hines, John Johans and William Latz
to the Washington Place Special Business
District
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Petitions & Communications
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
–INFORMAL CALENDAR

Mr. Bosley moved to perfect Board Bill
No. 143.
Seconded by Mr. Reed.

After discussion, Mr. Bosley requested
that Board Bill No. 143 be placed on the
informal perfection calendar.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
-- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
–INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING OF
BOARD BILLS
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 226

An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-78-2003, dated June 17, 2003, for a
maximum federal obligation of Four Million
Four Hundred Sixty Nine Thousand Four
Hundred Fifty Five Dollars ($4,469,455),
which is filed in the Office of the City Register
(Comptroller Document No. 45510), for the
reimbursement of all direct costs associated
with land acquired in fee for noise mitigation;
and containing an emergency clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 227

An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the

“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-79-2003, dated June 19, 2003, for a
maximum federal obligation of Four Million
Dollars ($4,000,000), which is filed in the
Office of the City Register (Comptroller
Document No. 45509), for the reimbursement
of all direct costs associated with the
Functional Replacement of the Berkeley High
School complex (Phase 7); and containing an
emergency clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 228
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-80-2003, dated June 17, 2003, for a
maximum federal obligation of Five Million
Dollars ($5,000,000), which is filed in the
Office of the City Register (Comptroller
Document No. 45512), for the reimbursement
of all direct costs associated with the Airport’s
noise mitigation acoustical program for
residences within 65-69 DNL (Phase 3) and
conduct section 106 evaluation; and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 229
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing a first amendment to Section Four,
subsection “FUND 1511 THE CITY OF ST.
LOUIS AIRPORT ENTERPRISE FUND” of
the City of St. Louis’ Annual Operating
Budget Ordinance 65871 approved June 30,
2003 for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2003
and ending June 30, 2004, as detailed in Section
One and Section Two below; and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 230
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,

ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City “Amendment Number 1”
dated July 29, 2003 to that certain “Grant
Agreement” offered by the United States of
America, acting through the Federal Aviation
Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation, the Grant
Agreement being for Project Number 3-290085-73-2002, dated September 27, 2002, for
a maximum federal obligation of Three Million
Four Hundred Seventy Two Thousand Five
Hundred Dollars ($3,472,500), which is filed
in the Office of the City Register (Comptroller
Document No. 43478) and was adopted and
ratified by the City under Ordinance No.
65706 approved December 10, 2002, for the
reimbursement of all direct costs associated
with the replacement of sections of Taxiway
Alpha from Echo to Romeo and the
reconstruction of Taxiway Sierra between
Runways 30L and 30R (the “Project”); the
Amendment Number 1 to the Grant
Agreement, which is filed in the Office of the
City Register and is made a part hereof
(Comptroller Document No. 43478), deletes
the description of the Project, as it appears
on page 1 of the Grant Agreement, and
substitutes the following project description:
“Replace sections of Taxiway Alpha from
Echo to Romeo; reconstruct Taxiway Sierra
between Runways 30L and 30R; reconstruct
Taxiway Delta between Hotel and November
– (Phase 1)”; and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 231
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-76-2003, dated July 18, 2003, for a
maximum federal obligation of Two Million
Dollars ($2,000,000), which is filed in the
Office of the City Register (Comptroller
Document No. 45847), for the reimbursement
of all direct costs associated with certain
security enhancements at the Airport; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 232

An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-77-2003, dated August 14, 2003, for
a maximum federal obligation of Four Million
Seven Hundred Fifty Eight Thousand Twenty
Six Dollars ($4,758,026), which is filed in the
Office of the City Register (Comptroller
Document No. 46016), for the reimbursement
of all direct costs associated with the
rehabilitation of runway/airfield lighting (Phase
3); and containing an emergency clause.
Board Members Young and Flowers
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 233

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis to enter into and execute
on behalf of the City of St. Louis (the “City”)
a Lambert-St. Louis International Airport
Concession Agreement (the “Agreement”),
between the City and Dynamic Vending,
Inc.(the “Concessionaire”), granting to the
Concessionaire the non-exclusive right, license,
and privilege to operate a Vending Concession
within the premises as described in the
Agreement, subject to the terms, covenants,
and conditions of the Agreement, which was
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment and is
attached hereto as ATTACHMENT “A” and
made a part hereof; directing that the
Agreement be in compliance with all
applicable disadvantaged business enterprise
requirements and in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, court decisions, and
executive orders relating to equal employment
opportunity; providing that the provisions
set forth in this Ordinance shall be applicable
exclusively to the Agreement; containing a
severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Member Bosley introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 234
An Ordinance pertaining to certain
streets, bridges and roadways; authorizing the
Mayor and the Comptroller, on behalf of the
City of St. Louis, to enter into an agreement
with the Missouri Highways and
Transportation Commission for the
maintenance and reconstruction for certain city
streets, bridges and roadways, and containing
an emergency clause.
Mr. President Shrewsbury and Board
Members Bauer, Kirner and Kennedy
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 235
An ordinance prohibiting the carrying
of concealed firearms by holders of concealed
carry endorsements in certain buildings and
areas; containing a severability clause and an
emergency clause.
Board Member Vollmer introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 236
An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Tenth Ward Liquor
Control District, as established herein, for a
period of three years from the effective date
hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Bauer introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 237
An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Twenty-fourth Ward
Liquor Control District, as established herein,
for a period of three years from the effective
date hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Young introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 238
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on August 6, 2003, to
change the zoning of one parcel of property
as indicated on the District Map, to the “G”
Local Commercial and Office District, so as
to include the described parcel of land in City
Block 380; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 239
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on July 3, 2003, to
change the zoning of property as indicated on
the District Map, to the “C” Multiple-Family
Dwelling District, so as to include the
described parcels of land in City Blocks 4583
and 3910.05; and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Member Schmid introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 240
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in the easternmost 85 feet of the 20 foot wide
east/west alley in City Block 1639 as bounded
by California, Chippewa, Iowa and Keokuk
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 241
An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 4180 Shenandoah Avenue/2306
Klemm Street Area (“Area”) after finding that
the Area is blighted as defined in Section
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
2000, as amended, (the “Statute” being
Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of
said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Blighting Study and Plan dated June 24,
2003 for the Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein
by attached Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section
99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial
plan for the redevelopment of the Area which
affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain; finding that the property
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be
responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available

ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.

Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 242

An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 5117 Cabanne Avenue Area
(“Area”) after finding that the Area is blighted
as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the
“Statute” being Sections 99.300 to 99.715
inclusive), containing a description of the
boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis
(“City”), attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit “A”, finding that
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area
is in the interest of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of
the City; approving the Blighting Study and
Plan dated June 24, 2003 for the Area (“Plan”),
incorporated herein by attached Exhibit “B”,
pursuant to Section 99.430; finding that there
is a feasible financial plan for the
redevelopment of the Area which affords
maximum opportunity for redevelopment of
the Area by private enterprise; finding that no
property in the Area may be acquired by the
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority
of the City of St. Louis (“LCRA”) through
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that
the property within the Area is unoccupied,
but if it should become occupied the
Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.

Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 243

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic on East 14th Street by blocking said
traffic flow at the north curb line of O’Fallon
Street and further authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of

traffic on O’Fallon Street by blocking said
traffic flow at the east curb line of East 14th
Street, and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Bosley introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 244
An ordinance pertaining to the
excavation of public streets, sidewalks, and
alleys; repealing Ordinance 54715, approved
March 29, 1967; enacting a new ordinance
covering the same subject matter; and
containing an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
BB#221 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
BB#238 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
BB#239 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
BB#226 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#227 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#228 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#229 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#230 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#231 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#232 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#233 - Transportation & Commerce
BB#234 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#240 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#243 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#244 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#235 - Public Safety
BB#236 - Public Safety
BB#237 - Public Safety
BB#241 - Neighborhood Development
BB#242 - Neighborhood Development
BB#245 - Health & Human Services

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Carter of the Committee on Housing,
Urban Development & Zoning submitted the
following report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
September 19, 2003.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Housing, Urban
Development & Zoning to whom was referred
the following Board Bills, report that they
have considered the same and recommend
adoption.

Board Bill No. 196

An ordinance establishing and creating a
Planned Unit Development District for a
portion of City Block 4623.06 to be known
as the “Dogtown Walk Townhouse Planned
Unit Development District”.
Alderman Carter
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

BOARD BILLS
FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Villa introduced Resolutions No.
137-142 and the Clerk was instructed to read
same.

Resolution No 137
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
on July 13, 2003, Elvis Jones celebrated her
glorious 100th birthday; and
WHEREAS, Elvis was born in Terel,
Arkansas, the first of three children, and raised
by her great grandmother; and
WHEREAS, Elvis moved to the City of
St. Louis in1958 and soon thereafter joined
the Mount Olive Missionary Baptist Church
under the leadership of Reverend David Lee
Langford and has remained a loyal and faithful
member; and
WHEREAS, Elvis was employed for
many years as a cook for the Haffer family;
and
WHEREAS, Elvis has been sustained
throughout her life by the love and support of
her husband, Curtis; her fourteen children;
thirty-six grandchildren; sixty great
grandchildren and seven great great
grandchildren;
NOW
THEREFORE
BE
IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the
City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Elvis Jones on
the occasion of her 100th Birthday and we
wish her continued peace, good health and
happiness and we further direct the Clerk of
this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.

Introduced on the 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 138

WHEREAS, we have been advised that
on September, 28, 2003, the rank of Eagle
Scout will be awarded to Bobby Reising, who
lives with his family at 4066 Bates Street; and

WHEREAS, the members of Bobby’s
family are both proud and happy to announce
this momentous accomplishment in Bobby’s
life; and

WHEREAS, Bobby has dedicated
himself to the hard work and commitment of
the Scouting program without forgetting the
importance of his education; and

WHEREAS, those who are familiar with
Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout
is a goal sought by many but attained by few;
requiring intelligence, perseverance, and a
strong sense of service to your community;
and

WHEREAS, Bobby is a role model for
all of the younger scouts in Troop 181 and
will be honored by them, along with his family
and many friends, at the Eagle Scout Court of
Honor to be held on September 28, 2003 at
Grace United Church of Christ;

NOW
THEREFORE
BE
IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the
City of St. Louis, being apprised of the
significant recognition to be bestowed on
Bobby Reising at the Eagle Court of Honor,
and wishing in some small way to add our
congratulations and best wishes to Bobby and
his family, we pause in our deliberations to
consider and adopt this resolution, and
instruct the Clerk of this Board to spread a
copy of this resolution over the permanent
rolls of the Board and to further prepare a
memorial copy of this resolution so that it
may be presented to our honoree as deemed
appropriate by the resolution’s sponsor.
Introduced this 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable Jennifer Florida, Alderwoman 15th Ward

Resolution No. 139

WHEREAS, Herb Goodrick has served
as executive secretary of the St. Louis
Newspaper Guild, Local 47 of the
Communications Workers of America, since
1988; and

WHEREAS, Herb grew up in St. Louis,
graduated from Beaumont High School and
began his devotion to local unions nearly 40
years ago as a business manager for the
Brotherhood of Railway Carmen; and

WHEREAS, his tireless efforts with the
Newspaper Guild have resulted in better

wages and improved working conditions for
hundreds of employees at the St. Louis PostDispatch, KSDK-Channel 5, the St. Louis
Review and the St. Louis Labor-Tribune; and

WHEREAS, Herb has been involved in
especially difficult negotiations between
management of the Post-Dispatch and the
newspaper’s employees; and

WHEREAS, after forty years of service
to the St. Louis community, Herb has decided
to begin a well deserved retirement;

NOW THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED
by the Board of Aldermen of the City of St.
Louis, that we pause in our deliberations to
congratulate Herb Goodrick for his decades
of commitment to St. Louis’ union efforts and
wish him well in his retirement and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the ends that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President

Resolution No. 140
WHEREAS, Anna Crosslin, a native of
Tokyo, Japan, became president of the
International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis in 1978; and
WHEREAS, she has served as the voice
of the St. Louis’ immigrant population for a
quarter century; and
WHEREAS, in the past decade our city
has witnessed a tremendous influx of foreignborn residents, upwards of thirty thousand
by some estimates; and
WHEREAS, Anna brings to her job a
wealth of knowledge concerning foreign
cultures, customs and beliefs; and
WHEREAS, this knowledge is only
surpassed by her compassion and concern for
those struggling to make a new life in America;
and
WHEREAS, she oversees a remarkably
talented and skilled staff, which strives, as
she does, to aid those in need while breaking
down the barriers and stereotypes that impede
progress;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
by the Board of Alderman of the City of St.
Louis that we pause in our deliberations to
recognize and congratulate Anna Crosslin on
the occasion of her 25th anniversary with the
International Institute and we further direct
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of
this Resolution across the minutes of these

proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy for presentation to our honoree at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President

Resolution No. 141
WHEREAS, Lisa Nicole Wilkerson was
born in the City of St. Louis, State of Missouri
on July 6, 1973. She is the daughter of James
E. & Geraldine Wilkerson (deceased) Stepdaughter of Laura F. Wilkerson; and
WHEREAS, Lisa Nicole Wilkerson’s
elementary and high school education was
obtained in the University City school system.
Lisa was an excellent student in elementary
and high school. While attending University
City High School, Lisa was the recipient of
the Brown Book Award, President of the
National Honor Society, and an active member
of Inroads Inc. graduating in June 1991; and
WHEREAS, Lisa Nicole Wilkerson went
on to continue her collegiate education at the
Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern
University in Evanston, Illinois and received
her Bachelor of Science Degree in Broadcast
Journalism in June 1995; and
WHEREAS, while Lisa was living in
Chicago, Illinois and working in public
relations the urge of dance and stage consumed
her. Through the persuasion of a friend, Lisa
signed up for hip hop dance classes which led
to a dance scholarship; and
WHEREAS, Lisa’s credits includes
appearances on the Tonight Show with Jay
Leno, Oprah Winfrey, “Play On” at the
Goodson Theater in Chicago, The Arena Stage
Washington, D.C., Seattle Repertory Theatre
Seattle Washington, “Godspell” St. Louis
Black Repertory Theatre and the movie
“Unconditional Love”; and
WHEREAS, Lisa Nicole Wilkerson
proudly makes her principle debut in the “The
Lion King” National tour, of which she is an
original company member. (Ensemble/
Understudy Shezill understudy Nilla). Lisa
has the principle role as Nila;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
by the Board of Aldermen of the City of St.
Louis that we pause in our deliberations to
recognize, welcome, and congratulate Lisa
Nicole Wilkerson on her many
accomplishments and contributions to
television, stage and screen and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced this 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President

Resolution No. 142

WHEREAS, after 38 years of
distinguished service, Sergeant David Lowell
is retiring from the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department.
WHEREAS, Sergeant Lowell was hired
on October 25, 1965, and is retiring on
October 5, 2003; and

WHEREAS, Sergeant Lowell was
promoted to Sergeant on February 11, 1979.
During his tenure, Sergeant Lowell has served
in the 2 nd, 3 rd and 9th Districts, the Intelligence
Unit, the Tactical anti-Crime Team (T.A.C.T.),
the Juvenile Division, and the Office of the
Chief of Police. Sergeant Lowell also served
on the Governor’s Detail; and

WHEREAS, Sergeant Lowell in currently
assigned to the Third District; and

WHEREAS, during his career, Sergeant
Lowell was awarded two Chief’s Letters of
Commendations; and

WHEREAS, Sergeant Lowell is a
respected employee and will be greatly missed
by all his fellow employees of the St. Louis
Metropolitan Police Department and the
citizens of the City of St. Louis;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
by the Board of Aldermen of the City of St.
Louis that we pause in our deliberations to
recognize and thank Sergeant David Lowell
for thirty-eight years of service to the citizens
in this community and we wish him peace,
happiness and good health in this retirement
and we further direct the Clerk of this Board
to spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution Nos. 137-142 stood
considered.

Mr. Villa moved that Resolution Nos.
137-142 be adopted, at this meeting of the
Board.
Seconded by Mr. Kirner.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Smith introduced Resolution No.
143 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 143
WHEREAS, on September 11, 2003 the
Missouri Senate voted to override Governor
Holden’s veto of House Bill 349 which will
enable citizens in this State to carry a concealed
weapon upon receiving a concealed firearm
permit; and
WHEREAS, on April 6, 1999, a majority
of the citizens of the State of Missouri rejected
Proposition B which would have allowed for
the carrying of concealed weapons throughout
the State; and
WHEREAS, the action of the Missouri
Senate in regard to House Bill 349 is an affront
to the majority of the citizens of this State
and a contravention of the democratic process
on which this country was founded; and
WHEREAS, the members of this Board
continue to believe that the fear of crime,
which is so prevalent in our community and
in communities throughout this State, and
which must be eliminated in order to improve
the quality of life for our citizens, cannot be
resolved by laws which introduce further
violence into our society; and
WHEREAS, a close examination of
House Bill 349 reveals many inconsistencies
and loopholes which will have a direct impact
on public safety and can be exploited to the
detriment of our citizens;
WHEREAS, we must continue to use
every legal means available to protect the
residents of this city and state from violent
behavior and vigorously promote the public
safety;
NOW
THEREFORE
BE
IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the
City of St. Louis, that we denounce the action
of the members of the Missouri Senate who
voted to override the Governor’s veto of House
Bill 349 and we direct the City Counselor for
the City of St. Louis to closely examine House
Bill 349 for any possible grounds by which it
can be legally challenged.
Introduced on the 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith , Alderwoman 1st Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid, Alderman 20th Ward
Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers, Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward
Honorable Jeffrey Boyd, Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Bennice Jones-King, Alderwoman 21st Ward
Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 143 stood
considered.

Ms. Smith moved that Resolution No.
143 be adopted, at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Ms. Krewson.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Smith introduced Resolution No.
144 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 144
WHEREAS, Missouri State statute
requires the superintendent of the St. Louis
Public School System be certified as a school
superintendent by the Missouri Department
of Elementary and Secondary Education; and
WHEREAS, the current Interim
Superintendent, William V. Roberti, has not
been certified by the Department of
Elementary and Secondary Education and has
publicly stated that he will not seek
certification during the term of his one year
contract with the St. Louis City Board of
Education; and
WHEREAS, in less than nine months,
the St. Louis City Board of Education will be
seeking the services of a new superintendent
to lead the school district; and
WHEREAS, the success of the St. Louis
Public School System and its future as a fully
accredited district depends on the experience
and leadership of the individual selected by
the School Board to serve as superintendent;
and
WHEREAS, it is incumbent upon the
members of the St. Louis City Board of
Education to immediately initiate an intensive
search for the next school district
superintendent and develop and implement a
procedure by which parents, teachers and
taxpayers will be allowed to have meaningful
input during the search;
NOW
THEREFORE
BE
IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of the
City of St. Louis, that we urge the members
of the St. Louis City Board of Education to
begin the search for the individual who will
serve as the next district superintendent and
to further make every effort to include
meaningful public participation in this search.
Introduced on the 19th day of September, 2003 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith , Alderwoman 1st Ward
Ms. Florida objected to unanimous
consent.
Ms. Smith moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of introducing Resolution No.
144.
Seconded by Mr. Bosley.
Failed by the following vote:

Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Ford-Griffin, Reed, Kennedy, McMillan,
Jones-King, Boyd, Williamson and Carter. 12

Noes:Young, Conway, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Bauer, Kirner, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 13
Present:0

Ms. Smith requested that the Resolution
be assigned to the Rules and Resolutions
Committee for hearing.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Mr. Roddy moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Wessels, Mr. Gregali, Mr. Schmid
and Ms. Sondermann
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Roddy moved to adjourn under rules
to return Friday, September 26, 2003.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen L. Divis, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
Regular Meeting

St. Louis, MO - September 23, 2003
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present:
Directors Visintainer,
Stallworth, Simon and President Hearst.
Absent: Directors Suelmann, Bess,
Siedhoff and Griggs. (excused)

Requests of the Director of Streets
designating Mr. Steve Runde to act in his
behalf; Director of Parks, Recreation and
Forestry designating Mr. Greg Hayes to act
in his behalf; Director of Human Services to
be excused from the Regular Meeting of

September 23 and 30, 2003, and; Director of
Airport to be excused from the Regular
Meeting of September 23, 2003 designating
Mr. Don Huber to act in his behalf were
received and leaves of absence granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
September 16, 2003 were unanimously
approved.
The following documents were referred
by the Secretary:

September 18, 2003
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets: 108048, Charter Communications, to
cut or bore for the purpose of installing coaxial
cables for broadband communications at 16th
and St. Charles.
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 108049, Gilbert L. Wilson, Jr.,
to subdivide at 1917-19 Congress Avenue in
City Block 1797. 108050, Renaissance
Properties, LLC, to subdivide in City Block
1381 at 2628 and 2630 Armand . 108051, The
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish
Hospital, to hang banners on Forest Park
underpass at Kingshighway and
Kingshighway overpass at highway 40 heading
east only.
To the Directors of Parks, Recreation
and Forestry and Health and Hospitals:
108052, St. Louis 2004, to hold event
December 31, 2003 in Forest Park at
Government Drive, Washington Drive, Pagoda
Circle, Post Dispatch Lake and Steinberg Rink
closing all surrounding streets in park.
To the Directors of Health and Hospitals
and Public Safety: 108053, A Brighter Horizan
CCC, to conduct day care center at 3321 North
Union.

September 19, 2003
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets: 108054, Charter Communications, cut
or bore for the purpose of installing
communication system on Grand and
Hickory.
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 108055, Hopewell M.B.
Church, resubdivide at McMillan, Kensington
and N. Taylor in C.B. 3761-N.
To the Director of Streets: Petition No.
6583, Duke Manufacturing Co., vacate
Monroe from 9th and 10th in C.B. 342 and
343.

September 22, 2003
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 108056, Terri L. Lovett and
Lee Johnson, consolidate land in C.B. 4583 at
4292 and 4296 Washington.

To the Director of Streets: 108057, St.
Joseph Croation Church, hang 4 banners at
12th and Russell.
To the Directors of Health and Hospitals
and Public Safety: 108058, Precious Children
Day Care, conduct day care center at 3855
Virginia.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by
Board Members and action thereon taken as
follows:

PRESIDENT
Proposed contract and bond ordered
approved as follows:
Letting No. 8230 – Eads Bridge
Construction Package “E”, West Approach
Intersection at Memorial Drive, Gerstner
Electric, Inc., 2400 Cassens Dr., Fenton, MO
63026, Contract No. 19583.
Supplemental Agreement No. 1 P.S.A.
No. 977 with Kennedy and Associates, Inc.,
for Programming and Design Services for New
Community Center – South St. Louis
approved and President authorized to execute
same.
Supplemental Agreement No. 3 to P.S.A.
No. 959 with Geotechnology, Inc., for
Construction, Materials Quality Assurance
Testing Services at Lambert approved and
President authorized to execute same.
The Board declared as emergencies the
following: Utah Median Irrigation
Improvements; Series No. 27C Commercial
Demolition (St. Mary’s Complex) at Lambert.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND STREETS
5 permits for Charter Communications,
to cut or bore for the purpose of installing
television cable at certain locations ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions as
follows: 108005, Beck/Garnier/Holt; 108006,
Hereford/Miami/Hereford behind 4954
Miami; 108007, Morganford/Lucy/Miami/
Tholozan; 108008, Kingshighway/Tholozan;
108009, Tennessee/Grand/Holly Hills and
Iron.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Draft of the following ordinance
approved, and Secretary instructed to forward
same to the Board of Aldermen with the
recommendation that it be passed:
“An ordinance to conditionally vacate
the easternmost 85' of the 20' wide e/w alley
in C.B. 1639 bounded by California,
Chippewa, Iowa and Keokuk”

Affidavit of Sensient Colors, Inc.
relating to compliance with Section Ten of
Ordinance 66002 for C.B. 2366, 2367 and
1900, Petition No. 6568 approved.

Application No. 108051. The Siteman
Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital,
hang banners on Forest Park underpass at
Kingshighway and Kingshighway overpass at
Highway 40 heading east only, ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTOR OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY

Application of Laclede Gas Company,
to construct, operate and maintain a gas
distribution system under and across and part
of Penrose Park, ordered approved, subject
to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY
AND PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No. 108037, Adelton
Aviation, to land helicopter on north east lawn
of the pavilion near Government Drive in
Forest Park October 2, 2003 ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY

3 day care centers ordered approved as
follows: 107956, Kiddiversity, to conduct day
care center at 3401 Chippewa; 107929, Family
Christian Childcare, to conduct day care center
at 1905 Arlington; 107369, Rich and Little
Preschool and Daycare Center, to conduct day
care center at 4337 Shreve.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved with conditions, as submitted by
the Hearing Officer, per Board Order
No. 766.

The following documents were not listed
on the posted Agenda: 264863, 264865,
264875 and 264877-80.

Adjourned to meet Tuesday,
September 30, 2003 at 1:45 P.M.
Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.
President
Attest:
Darlene A. Plump,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, October 8, 2003, in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #8230 - Appeal filed by
YWCA, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a
day care for 16 children at 1311 Tower Grove.
WARD 17 #AO288015-03

APPEAL #8231 - Appeal filed by Little
Angels Christian Daycare, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a home occupancy waiver
authorizing the Appellant to operate a home
day care for 10 children at 7123 Minnesota.
WARD 11 Home Occupancy Waiver

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
E. Smoot, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, October 9, 2003 on the following
conditional uses:
4824 Goethe - Home Occupancy
Waiver - General Contractor (Office Use
Only) - "A" - Single Family Dwelling Unit.
Ward 13

3801 Jamieson - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Home Remodeling/Contracting
(Office Use Only) - "C" - Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Ward 23

3811 Page - Home Occupancy Waiver Construction/Remodeling (Office Use Only)
- "C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Ward 19

3522 Vista Avenue - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Developer (Office Use Only) - "C" Multiple Family Dwelling District. Ward 19

3305 Jamieson - #AO286410-03 Yoga Studio - "F" - Neighborhood Commercial
District and "A" - Single Family Dwelling
Unit. Ward 23

5503 Lillian - #AO281698-03 - Carry
Out Restaurant - "F" - Neighborhood
Commercial District. Ward 27

2901-15 Natural Bridge - #AB28649503 - Construct A Parking Lot Per Plans (44
Spaces) - "G" - Local Commercial and Office
District. Ward 3

INVITATION TO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
Bid #650-000180

Uniform Leather Items

Sealed bids for the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, October 10, 2003 when
they will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must
be submitted may be obtained from the Office
of the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.
The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage
Acknowledgment
and
Acceptance
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit
this Declaration with the bid will result in
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's
failure to comply with the contract provisions
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may
result in termination of the contract and the
imposition of additional penalties as set for in
the Ordinance and Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Grassi,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
CAROL GRASSI
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
PHONE # 314-444-5608

DEPARTMENT
OF PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The Department of Personnel, Room
100 City Hall, City of St. Louis, Missouri
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for the
following examination is October 10, 2003.

PUBLIC HEALTH
PROGRAM REPRESENTATIVE
Prom./O.C. 8963
$32,526 to $48,828 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for the
following examination is October 17, 2003.

PROGRAM SPECIALIST I
(RECYCLING PROGRAM)
(Per Performance)
O.C. 8962
$13.00 (Hourly Salary)

Vacation, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefit privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured in the
office of the Department of Personnel, Room
100 City Hall. Applications can be submitted
on the Internet. Visit the city web site
(www.stlouiscity.com) and link to Jobs with
the City of St. Louis.
William C. Duffe, Director
September 24, 2003

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to

come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.
Please contact the License Collector,
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may
also refer to our on-line site at
www.stlouiscity.com.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations are
available upon request from Mr. Larry
Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or can be
accessed at http://www.st louiscity.com/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER

Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
September 30, 2003 - ADVERTISED BIDS
will be received by the undersigned to be
opened at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for
the items listed below on the dates specified.

Notice to All Suppliers
NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2003
SURPLUS FIBERGLASS
PLANTERS FOR SALE
per condemnation #S04-10.

SURPLUS COMPUTERS & OFFICE
EQUIPMENT FOR SALE
per condemnation #S04-11.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2003
DOG AND CAT FOOD
for furnishing the Animal Regulation Center
per Req. #16.

STAGE, SHOWMOBILE
for furnishing the Parks Division per Req. #44.

LIQUID DE-ICER
for furnishing the Street Division per
Req. #54.

2004 CHEVROLET BLAZER
for furnishing the Airport Authority per
Req. #91.

RUBBER REMOVAL TRUCK
for furnishing the Airport Authority per
Req. #100.

AUTOMATIC LUBRICATING
DISPENSERS
for furnishing the Airport Authority per
Req. #1198.

CONTRACT FOR DOCUMENT
SHREDDING & RECORDS
DISPOSAL
for a period of three (3) years from date of
award.

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever

possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

