The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2004-2005
PRELIMINARY
The following is a
preliminary draft of the
minutes of the meeting of
FRIDAY, January 21, 2005.

These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

Chambers, January 21, 2005.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Smith,
Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Reed, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,
Wessels, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,
Hanrahan, Bauer, Kirner, Williamson, Carter,
Krewson and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 27

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusion. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUEST
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING

Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for January 7, 2005.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

Board of Aldermen Report, January 21,
2005, St. Louis, Missouri.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

I wish to report that on the 14th day of
January, 2005, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 374
An ordinance establishing stop sites for
traffic traveling on Wabada Avenue and
Highland Avenue between Kingshighway
Boulevard and Union Boulevard and
containing an emergency clause.
Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS
FOR THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 430
An ordinance affirming adoption of a
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,
Redevelopment Project; authorizing the
execution of a Redevelopment Agreement
between the City and BDP, L.L.C.; prescribing
the form and details of said agreement;
designating BDP, L.L.C., as developer of the
Redevelopment Area; making certain findings
with respect thereto; authorizing other related
actions in connection with the redevelopment
of certain property within the Redevelopment
Area; and containing a severability clause.
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 431
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the issuance and delivery of not
to exceed $51,500,000.00 plus issuance costs
principal amount of Tax Increment Revenue
N OTES (BOTTLE D ISTRICT R EDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT), Series A, B, C and D, of the City of
St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing the form and

details of such notes and the covenants and
agreements made by the City to facilitate and
protect the payment thereof; and prescribing
other matters relating thereto.
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 432
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service authorizing the 2005 St.
Louis Works and the 50/50 Sidewalk Programs
City Wide providing for the construction and
reconstruction of gutters, streets, driveways,
spot curbs, sidewalks, alleys, traffic controls,
beautification, tree planting, resurfacing and
related engineering adjustments listed herein,
appropriating $4,600,000.00 from the Street
Improvement Fund; containing sections for
description of the work, approval of plans
and specifications, work and material
guarantees, estimated costs from City funds
and supplemental agreements and reversion
authorizations, applicable state and federal
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity
provisions, the Mayor’s Executive Orders,
contract advertising statutes, and a public
work emergency clause.
Board Member Young introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 433
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and Comptroller to lease certain
mooring rights between Lesperance Street and
Lafayette Avenue being Seven Hundred
Eighty Feet (780') with three (3) mutual
options provided at five (5) years each to Eagle
Marine Industries, Inc. the unimproved public
wharf for a new ten (10) year period to replace
its existing lease under ordinance 57930 on
certain terms and conditions, including
standard provisions.
Board Member Young introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 434
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and the Comptroller to lease
certain unimproved land consisting of two
parcels totaling Fifty-Two Thousand Three
and Fifty-Two Square Foot (52,352'),
bounded generally by Dickson Street, Ashley
Street, the Mississippi River and the Laclede
Power Building to Trailnet Inc. for a period of
ten (10) years with three (3) mutual options
of five (5) years each under certain terms and
the conditions and standard provisions.
Board Member Carter introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 435
An ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and

Apportionment, authorizing the Mayor of the
City of St. Louis, on behalf of the City, to
apply for funding under the United States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Office of Healthy
Homes and Lead Hazard Control being offered
pursuant to a Federal Fiscal Year 2004 Notice
of Funding Availability (the “NOFA”) for the
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant
(LHRD) and the Lead Hazard Control Grant
(LHC) Programs, the HUD Economic
Development Initiative Special Project Grant
(EDI) and the United States Conference of
Mayors Cities United for Science Progress
Lead-Safe For Kids Sakes Grant Programs
(USCM), authorizing the Mayor and the
Comptroller on behalf of the City to enter
into and execute agreements with HUD for
the receipt of Fiscal Year 2004 LHRD, LHC,
and EDI funds, appropriating the sum of a
maximum federal obligation of Four Million
Dollars ($4,000,000) awarded through the
LHRD Grant Program , appropriating the sum
of a maximum federal obligation of Three
Million Dollars ($3,000,000) awarded through
the LHC Grant Program, appropriating the
sum of a maximum federal obligation of Four
Hundred and Ninety Seven Thousand and
Fifty Dollars($497,050) awarded through the
EDI Program, appropriating the sum of One
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000)
awarded through the USCM Program,
authorizing and directing the Director of Public
Safety and the Building Commissioner, the
Health Commissioner and Director of the
Community Development Administration
(CDA) to contract with municipal agencies,
non-profit corporations and other entities as
necessary for the expenditure of LHRD, LHC,
EDI and USCM funds for the purpose of
expansion and continuation of the Mayor’s
Lead Safe St. Louis Comprehensive Action
Plan which will include activities such as lead
screening, testing, outreach, education,
inspection services, clearance testing, lead
hazard remediation, enforcement, temporary
relocation , administration, evaluation and
follow-up services, and directing the
Comptroller to issue warrants thereon upon
the City Treasury; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Member Bauer introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 436

An ordinance establishing and creating a
Planned Unit Development District for a
portion of City Block 4794 to be known as
the “Clifton Heights Townhomes Subdivision
Planned Unit Development District”.

Board Member Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 437

An ordinance approving the petition of

the Lafayette Square Townhouses
Community Improvement District and the
Orchard Development Group IV, LLC as
owner of certain real property, establishing
the Lafayette Square Townhouses
Community Improvement District, finding a
public purpose for the establishment of the
Lafayette Square Townhouses Community
Improvement District, and containing a
severability clause.
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 438
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic on O’Fallon Street by blocking said
traffic flow at the west curb line of 13th Street;
on O’Fallon Street by blocking said traffic
flow at the east curb line of 14th Street; on
East 14th Street by blocking said traffic flow
at the north curb line of O ’Fallon Street; on
East 14th Street at a point approximately one
hundred an d sixty (160) feet north of the
north curb line of Biddle Street and further
authorizing and directing the Director of
Streets to temporarily close, barricade or
otherwise impede the flow of traffic on the
north-south alley in City Block 564W by
blocking said traffic flow at the north curb
line of Biddle Street, and containing an
emergency clause.
Board Member Boyd introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 439
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic along the east-west alley located in the
most eastern part of City block 3837at the
west curbline of Hamilton Avenue at a point
approximately sixty feet from the north curb
line of Ridge Avenue; further impeding the
flow of traffic along the same east-west alley
at the point that such alley intersects with a
north-south extension of such alley and further
impeding the flow of traffic along the east
west alley located in the eastern part of City
Block 3837 at a point 60 feet west of the west
curbline of Hamilton Avenue and containing
an emergency clause.
Mr. Bosley moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of introducing Board Bill No.
440.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Reed, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,
Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, Jones-

King, Boyd, Hanrahan, Bauer, Kirner,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 27
Noes: 0
Present: 0
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 440
An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Third Ward Liquor
Control District, as established herein, for a
period of three years from the effective date
hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
BB#430 - Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
BB#431 - Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
BB#436 - Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
BB#432 - Streets, Traffic and Refuse
BB#438 - Streets, Traffic and Refuse
BB#439 - Streets, Traffic and Refuse
BB#433 - Transportation and Commerce
BB#434 - Transportation and Commerce
BB#435 - Health and Human Services
BB#437 - Ways and Means
BB#440 - Public Safety

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Wessels of the Committee on
Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
submitted the following report which was
read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 21, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Housing, Urban
Development and Zoning to whom was
referred the following Board Bills, report that
they have considered the same and recommend
adoption.

Board Bill No. 385
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on December 8, 2004,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, to the “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District, so as to include the
described parcel of land in City Block 5100;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 387

An ordinance establishing and creating a
Planned Unit Development District for a
portion of City Block 4058.18 to be known
as the “Sublette Fields Subdivision Planned
Unit Development District”.

Board Bill No. 388

An ordinance establishing and creating a
Planned Unit Development District for a
portion of City Block 4624.01 to be known
as the “Glades Corner Subdivision Planned
Unit Development District”.

Board Bill No. 389

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on December 8, 2004,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, to the “H” Area
Commercial District, so as to include the
described parcels of land in City Block 4350;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 391

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on December 8, 2004,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, to the “H” Area
Commercial District, so as to include the
described parcels of land in City Blocks 1950,
1956 and 2226; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 392
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance pertaining to Preservation
Review Districts; amending Ordinance 64832,
approved on December 17, 1999, by deleting
Exhibit A of such ordinance which defines the
boundaries of the Preservation Review
Districts and enacting a new Exhibit A
pertaining to the same subject matter; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 410

An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as a
redevelopment area known as The I-55/
Loughborough Redevelopment Area pursuant
to the real property tax increment
redevelopment act; approving a redevelopment
plan and a redevelopment project with respect
thereof; adopting tax increment financing
within the Redevelopment area; making
findings with respect thereto; establishing the
I-55/Loughborough Special Allocation Fund;
authorizing certain actions by city officials;
and containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 411

An Ordinance affirming adoption of a
redevelopment plan, redevelopment area,
redevelopment project; authorizing the
execution of a redevelopment agreement
between the City and Loughborough
Commons, LLC; prescribing the form and

details of said agreement; designating
Loughborough Commons, LLC, as developer
of the redevelopment area; making certain
findings with respect thereto; authorizing other
related actions in connection with the
redevelopment of certain property within the
redevelopment area; and containing a
severability clause.

Board Bill No. 412
An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the issuance and
delivery of not to exceed $11,000,000.00 plus
issuance costs principal amount of Tax
Increment Revenue Notes (I-55/
Loughborough Redevelopment Project), of the
City of St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing the
form and details of such notes and the
covenants and agreements made by the City
to facilitate and protect the payment thereof;
and prescribing other matters relating thereto.
Alderman Wessels
Chairman of the Committee
Ms. Young of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 21, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 381
An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller of the City of
St. Louis (the “City”) to enter into and execute
on behalf of the City the “First Amendment
To Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
(the “Airport”) Concession Agreement
(Baggage Cart Rental and Electronic Locker
Rental)” (hereinafter referred to as the “First
Amendment”) to the Airport Baggage Cart
Rental and Electronic Locker Rental
Concession Agreement No. AL-064 between
the City and St. Louis Luggage Carts, LLC, d/
b/a Central Carts, a limited liability
corporation formed under the Missouri
Limited Liability Company Act, dated August
27, 2002, and authorized by City Ordinance
No. 65623, approved August 5, 2002 (the
“Agreement”); the First Amendment to the
Agreement, which is attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part hereof,
was approved by the City’s Airport
Commission, and its terms are more fully

described in Section One of this Ordinance;
providing that the provisions set forth in this
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to
the Agreement as amended by the First
Amendment; containing a severability clause;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 382
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City the
“Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Concession Agreement (SHOE SHINE)” (the
“Agreement”), between the City and Two Of
A Kind, LLC (the “Concessionaire”), a limited
liability company organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Missouri, granting to
the Concessionaire the non-exclusive right,
license, and privilege to operate, manage, and
maintain a shoe shine concession within the
premises as described in the Agreement,
subject to and in accordance with the terms,
covenants, and conditions of the Agreement,
which was approved by the Airport
Commission and is attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part hereof;
providing that the provisions set forth in this
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to
the Agreement; containing a severability
clause; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 404
An ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission, the Board of Public
Service, and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, a municipal
corporation (“St. Louis”) to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis an “Agreement
and Contract of Sale” (substantially in the
form as set out in ATTACHMENT “1” which
is incorporated herein), between St. Louis, the
owner and operator of Lambert–St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”) which is
located in St. Louis County, Missouri, and
Mr. Joseph J. Jasso of Hazelwood, Missouri
(“Buyer”), necessary for the sale by St. Louis
to Buyer of certain surplus property (the
“Property”) located in St. Louis County that
is more fully described in Section 1 and
EXHIBIT A of the Agreement and Contract
of Sale in accordance with and subject to its
provisions and to the applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration (“FAA”) and the applicable
provisions of the Airport’s Amended and
Restated Indenture of Trust dated October
15, 1984 and amended and restated on
September 10, 1997 (as amended, “Airport
Indentures”); providing for the deposit of the

proceeds from the Agreement and Contract of
Sale; authorizing and directing the Mayor and
the Comptroller of St. Louis to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis the “Quit Claim
Deed” substantially in the form as set out in
EXHIBIT B to the Agreement and Contract
of Sale subject to and in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement and Contract of Sale,
remising, releasing and forever quit-claiming
unto the Buyer, its successors and assigns the
Property subject to the easement and
restrictive covenants as defined and provided
for in the Quit Claim Deed; conditioning the
execution and delivery by St. Louis of the
agreements, documents, and instruments
contemplated in this Ordinance on the FAA’s
prior written approval of: a) the release and
sale of the surplus Property to the Buyer, b)
the provisions of the Agreement and Contract
of Sale including, without limitation, the
“Purchase Price” of Two Hundred Seventy
Five Thousand Dollars ($275,000) as defined
and provided for in Section 2 of the Agreement
and Contract of Sale, c) Buyer’s development
plan for the surplus Property, and d) any other
related matter required to be submitted to and
approved by the FAA; authorizing the
Mayor, the Comptroller, the Register, the City
Counselor, and other appropriate officers,
officials, agents, and employees of St. Louis
with the advice of the Director of Airports to
enter into and execute on behalf of St. Louis
and in St. Louis’ best interest any attendant
or related documents, agreements, affidavits,
certificates, or instruments deemed necessary
to effectuate the terms set forth in the
Agreement and Contract of Sale or the Quit
Claim Deed, and/or deemed necessary to
preserve and protect St. Louis’ interest and to
take such actions as are necessary or
appropriate in connection with the sale of the
Property or the consummation of the
transactions contemplated herein; providing
that the provisions set forth in this Ordinance
shall be applicable exclusively to the
agreements, documents, and instruments
approved and/or authorized by this
Ordinance, and containing a severability clause,
and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 405

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, Board
of Public Service, and the Board of Estimate
and Apportionment authorizing a Second
Amendment to Section One of the Airfield
Projects Public Works Ordinance 65162
approved February 15, 2001, as amended by
Ordinance 65626 approved August 5, 2002,
which authorized a multi-year public work
and improvement program (the “Airfield
Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport (the “Airport”), adding certain public
work projects more fully described in Section

One of this Ordinance to the listing of Airfield
Projects authorized therein and increasing the
total estimated cost of the Airfield Projects
by Nineteen Million Seven Hundred Twenty
One Thousand Eight Hundred Fifty Nine
Dollars ($19,721,859) to Sixty Six Million
Nine Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Three
Hundred Fifty Nine Dollars ($66,965,359);
amending Section Two of the Airfield Projects
Public Works Ordinance 65162 as amended
by Ordinance 65626, which authorized and
provided for the initial appropriation and
expenditure of funds for the Airfield Projects,
by deleting Section Two of Ordinance 65162
in its entirety and substituting a new Section
Two authorizing and providing for the initial
appropriation and expenditure of funds for
the Airfield Projects and providing for the
receipt of supplemental appropriations when
authorized by ordinance; containing a
severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 406
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, Board
of Public Service, and the Board of Estimate
and Apportionment authorizing a Second
Amendment to Section One of the Building
Projects Public Works Ordinance 65163
approved February 15, 2001, as amended by
Ordinance 65625 approved August 5, 2002,
which authorized a multi-year public work
and improvement program (the “Building
Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport (the “Airport”), decreasing the total
estimated cost of the Building Projects by
Seventeen Million Two Hundred Fourteen
Thousand Two Hundred Twelve Dollars
($17,214,212) to Ninety Million Six Hundred
Seventy One Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty
Eight Dollars ($90,671,788); amending Section
Two of the Building Projects Public Works
Ordinance 65163 as amended by Ordinance
65625, which authorized and provided for the
initial appropriation and expenditure of funds
for the Building Projects, by deleting Section
Two of Ordinance 65163 as amended in its
entirety and substituting a new Section Two
authorizing and providing for the initial
appropriation and expenditure of funds for
the Building Projects and providing for the
receipt of supplemental appropriations when
authorized by ordinance as funds become
available to continue the Building Projects;
amending Section Ten of Ordinance 65163 as
more fully described in Section Three of this
Ordinance; containing a severability clause;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 407
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of

Estimate and Apportionment, authorizing a
Fourth Amendment to Section One of
Ordinance 64219 approved December 15,
1997, as amended by Ordinance 64648
approved May 20, 1999, Ordinance 65161
approved February 15, 2001, and Ordinance
65359 approved December 3, 2001, increasing
the estimated total cost for the public work
and improvement program at Lambert-St.
Louis International Airport (the “Airport”),
consisting of certain capital improvement
projects for terminal, airfield and other Airport
improvements approved by the majority-ininterest (“MII”) of airlines serving the Airport
(the “MII Projects”) as more fully described
therein, by Two Million Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) to Seventy
Seven Million Seven Hundred Twenty
Thousand Three Hundred Seventy Dollars
($77,720,370); amending Section Two of
Ordinance 64219 authorizing supplemental
appropriations when authorized by ordinance
as funds become available to continue the
projects authorized therein; authorizing a
Fourth Supplemental Appropriation in the
amount of Two Million Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) from the subaccount of the Series 2002 Airport
Construction Account in the Airport
Construction Fund established and authorized
pursuant to the Series 2002 Capital
Improvement Program Bond Ordinance No.
65618 approved August 5, 2002 (Board Bill
No. 162), into Ordinance 64219 as amended
for the payment of cost authorized therein;
containing a severability clause, and containing
an emergency clause.
Alderwoman Young
Chairman of the Committee
Ms. Young to approve the appointment
of Joan K. Miller and Taunia Allen Mason to
the Port Authority Commission.
Seconded by Ms. Flowers.
Carried unanimously unanimously by
voice vote.
Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 21, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 380
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,

barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic on Raymond Avenue by blocking said
traffic flow at the east curb line of Union
Boulevard and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 383

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate 7th Street at
it’s intersection with Dr. Martin Luther King
Drive as “Jerry Clinton Way”.

Board Bill No. 384

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate Taylor Avenue
at its intersection with Natural Bridge
Boulevard as “Oliver Sain Place”.
Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Public Safety submitted the following report
which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 21, 2005.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Public Safety to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 311

An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Twenty-Fourth Ward
Liquor Control District, as established herein,
for a period of three years from the effective
date hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION

Ms. Young moved that Board Bill No.
364 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Villa moved that Board Bill No. 367
before the Board for perfection, be perfected
as reported out of Committee with its
recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Villa moved that Board Bill No. 368
before the Board for perfection, be perfected
as reported out of Committee with its
recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Carter moved that Board Bill No.
393 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Reed.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Reed moved that Board Bill No. 403
(Committee Substitute) before the Board for
perfection, be perfected as reported out of
Committee with its recommendation “Do
Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Carter.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Ms.Young moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of moving the following Board
Bills to the third reading calendar for final
passage: Board Bills No. 364, 367, 368, 393,
403 (Committee Substiute).
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Reed, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,
Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, JonesKing, Boyd, Hanrahan, Bauer, Kirner,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 27
Noes: 0
Present: 0

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
Third Reading Consent/Report of
Engrossment and Final Passage.
Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bills No. 366, 364,
367, 368, 393 and 403 (Committee Substitute).
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Reed, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,

Villa, Heitert, Wessels, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, JonesKing, Boyd, Hanrahan, Bauer, Kirner,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 27
Noes: 0
Present: 0

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, January 21, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following
Board Bills report that they
have considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 366
An ordinance pertaining to parking for
disabled persons; amending Section 17.76.020
of the Revised Code, as enacted in Section
Two of Ordinance 65142, by requiring that
the applicant for a Disabled Parking Space
Permit verify that the vehicle to be parked in
the Disabled Parking Space is registered to
the address at which the permit sign is to be
erected and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 364
An ordinance amending Ordinance No.
63734 by approving an amendment to the
blighting study and plan for South Broadway/
Spruce/South Third/Poplar Area dated
February 8, 1996 which amendment pertains
to the addition of residential uses as permitted
uses in the area, and other items related thereto;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 367
An
ordinance
approving
a
Redevelopment Plan for the W. Steins St., E.
Steins St., S. Broadway St. Area (“Area”) after
finding that the Area is blighted as defined in
Section 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the “Statute”
being Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of
said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Plan dated November 16, 2004 for the

Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein by attached
Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430;
finding that there is a feasible financial plan
for the development of the Area which affords
maximum opportunity for development of the
Area by private enterprise; finding that no
property in the Area may be acquired by the
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority
of the City of St. Louis (“LCRA”) through
the exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;
finding that the property within the Area is
partially occupied, and that the Redeveloper
shall be responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the Board of
Aldermen and requesting various officials,
departments, boards and agencies of the City
to cooperate and to exercise their respective
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.

Board Bill No. 368

An
ordinance
approving
a
Redevelopment Plan for the 720 Koeln Ave.
and 7503-05 Alabama Ave. Area (“Area”) after
finding that the Area is blighted as defined in
Section 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the “Statute”
being Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of
said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Plan dated November 16, 2004 for the
Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein by attached
Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430;
finding that there is a feasible financial plan
for the development of the Area which affords
maximum opportunity for development of the
Area by private enterprise; finding that no
property in the Area may be acquired by the
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority
of the City of St. Louis (“LCRA”) through
the exercise of eminent domain or otherwise;
finding that the property within the Area is
occupied, and that the Redeveloper shall be
responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the Board of
Aldermen and requesting various officials,
departments, boards and agencies of the City
to cooperate and to exercise their respective

powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.

Board Bill No. 393
An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Health Commissioner, on behalf of the
City of St. Louis, to enter into and execute a
Grant Agreement with the Missouri
Foundation for Health (MFH) for a grant in
the amount of $231,310 to fund the Homeless
Shelter TB Nurse Coordinator for a period of
three years, and appropriating said funds and
authorizing the Health Commissioner on
behalf of the City, upon approval of the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment, to expend
the funds by entering into contracts or
otherwise for grant purpose and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 403
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance pertaining to dogs and dog
parks; establishing rules and regulations for
the leashing of dogs and the establishment and
use of dog parks; amending Ordinance 65206,
approved June 21, 2001, by repealing Section
10.04.220 of SECTION ONE of said
Ordinance and enacting in lieu thereof a new
ordinance pertaining to the leashing of dogs
and dog parks, and containing an emergency
clause.
Alderman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee
Board Bills Numbered 366, 364, 367,
368, 393, 403CS were read and all other
business being suspended, Mr. Shrewsbury,
in the presence of the Board and in open
session, affixed his signature in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Wessels introduced Resolutions No.
213 and 214 and the Clerk was instructed to
read same.

ResolutionNo. 213
WHEREAS, On January 28, 2005, Dr.
Ann Davis, the Principal of St. Gabriel the
Archangel School in St. Louis, Missouri, is
awarded the 2005 Missouri Music Educators
Association “Missouri Administrator of the
Year”; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Ann Davis consistently
demonstrates exemplary support of music
education and recognizes music’s contribution
towards the development of the well-rounded
student; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Ann Davis willingly
shares her leadership abilities with the staff
and students of St. Gabriel the Archangel
School; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Ann Davis has 12 years

of administrative experience in the schools of
the St. Louis Archdiocese; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Ann Davis is an
outstanding member of this community whose
dedication to educational excellence is greatly
appreciated;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Dr. Ann Davis
on being recognized as the Missouri
Administrator of the Year and extend thanks
and appreciation for the commitment she has
made to education in this community and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy for presentation to our
honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate
by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 21st day of January, 2005
by:
Honorable Donna Baringer, Alderwoman 16th Ward

Resolution No. 214
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to note the untimely passing of
Johnny David Wilder on January 16, 2005;
and
WHEREAS, Mr. Wilder was born on
April 1, 1928 and raised in Aliceville, Alabama
by his loving parents Johnny Wilder and Della
McKinstry; and
WHEREAS, while in his early twenties,
Mr. Wilder moved to St. Louis where he found
employment at the White Front Restaurant
in the Wellston Loop and met the love of his
life, Amanda Elizabeth, with whom he enjoyed
56 years of marriage prior to her death in
October 2004; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Wilder was a devoted
and faithful member of Mt. Nebo Baptist
Church and was greatly admired and respected
by all who knew as a multi-talented man
whose warm personality and intelligence will
be greatly missed; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Wilder leaves behind
to cherish his memory his mother, Della; his
daughters, Emmalene and Della; his six
grandchildren and five great grandchildren, his
family and his countless friends and admirers;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause to
remember Johnny David Wilder and we join
with his many friends in expressing our sorrow
at his passing, and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these

proceedings and to prepare a memorial copy
for presentation to the Wilder family at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 21st day of January, 2005
by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 213 and 214 stood
considered.

Mr Wessels moved that Resolutions No.
213 and 214 be adopted, at this meeting of the
Board.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS

Ms. Smith introduced Resolution No.
215 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 215

WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of
St. Louis have recently been informed that
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department
has for some time followed an administrative
procedure which allows officers to arbitrarily
decide whether to file a report of a crime; and

WHEREAS, it has been asserted that as
a result of this practice many serious crimes
have not been properly investigated or
documented; and

WHEREAS, Chief Mokwa and the
members of the Board of Police
Commissioners have know since July 2004
that the police department had failed to
properly document almost 6000 reported
crimes; and

WHEREAS, it has further been
suggested that this practice clearly violates
the FBI standards for reporting crimes in a
nationwide study which compares crime
statistics; and

WHEREAS, the apparent failure of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department to
properly report and investigate criminal
activity has raised a legitimate concern among
the citizens of this city as to the effectiveness
and integrity of the Department and its
leadership; and

WHEREAS, although the Board of
Aldermen is not authorized to legislatively
effect the administration of the Police
Department, the members of the Board are
the elected representatives of the residents of
this City and the Board is the proper forum
to investigate all matters relating to public
safety and the responsibilities and duties of
public servants;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we direct the
Committee on Public Safety to convene
hearings for the purpose of investigating the
allegations regarding the Police Department
procedures for reporting crimes. Such
investigation should include an examination
of the following issues:
•
over what period of time was the
“memo” procedure for documenting crimes
used by member of the Department
•
when did this procedure come to
the attention of the Board of Police
Commissioners
•
was the erroneous data used in any
grant applications by the Department
•
how are police officers trained in
the documentation and investigation of
reported criminal activity
•
what corrective measures has the
Board of Police Commissioners instituted to
ensure the proper documentation and
investigation of reported crimes in our city
•
determination of the harm caused
to crime victims by this practice
The committee is further directed to
make a report of its findings to the full Board
of Aldermen.
Introduced on the 21st day of January, 2005
by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward
Unanimous consent having been objected
to, Ms. Smith moved to suspend the rules for
the purpose of introducing Resolution No.
215.
Seconded by Mr. Bosley.
Failed by the following vote.
Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Reed, Young, Florida, Baringer, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,
Williamson, Carter and Mr. President
Shrewsbury. 16
Noes: Conway, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,
Wessels, Roddy, Hanrahan, Bauer, Kirner,
Krewson. 10
Present: Ortmann. 1

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Ford-Griffin and Mr. Gregali.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return Friday, January 28, 2005.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO – January 25, 2005
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present:
Directors Visintainer,
Suelmann, Siedhoff, Bess, Simon and
President Melton
Absent: Director Moore. (excused)
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
January 18, 2005 were unanimously
approved.
The following documents were referred
by the Secretary:

January 20, 2005
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 109585, Calvin D. & Tonae J.
Flemons, consolidate lots at Kingshighway in
C.B. 3767, 109586, Land Reutilization
Authority, resubdivide at Blair, North Market
and 14th, 109587, The Meyer Company,
consolidate land at Euclid and Rosalie in C.B.
4393A, 109588, Land Reutilization Authority,
resubdivide at Monroe, 13th and 14th in C.B.
633, 109589, Land Reutilization Authority,
resubdivide at North Market and Hadley in
C.B. 639, 109590, Land Reutilization
Authority, resubdivide at North Market and
13th and 633, 109591, Land Reutilization
Authority, resubdivide at Hadley, North
Market, and 13th in C.B. 638.
To the Director of Streets: 109592,
Traube Canvas Products, Inc., encroach with
temporary vestibule extending under existing
awning and onto side walk at 4584 Laclede,
109593, McGowan Bros., encroach with

handicap ramp at 1324 Washington.

January 21, 2005

To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets: 109594, Shell Pipeline Company LP,
install 6" petroleum products pipeline under
the Mississippi crossing under the St. Louis
Floodwall and Prairie Street Extension.

To the Director of Streets: 109595,
Cairdeas Café, encroach with tables and chairs
at 1528 Tamm, 109596, Union Electric
Company d/b/a AmerenUE, replace pole on
west side of alley and install cable and take up
pole on east side of alley located on south of
Bischoff and west of Marconi at 2207
Marconi.

To the Directors of Health and Hospitals
and Public Safety: 109597, Tru-Luv Daycare,
conduct day care center at 4028 Laclede.

January 24, 2005

To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 109598, Egg & Dart Properties,
subdivide at 2641-43 Wyoming in C.B. 1760.

To the Director of Streets: 109599,
Samuel Steward , encroach with handicap ramp
at 3137 Morganford.

To the Directors of Streets and Parks,
Recreation and Forestry: 109600, Benham,
construct guardrail and decorative fence along
Forest Park Parkway, DeBaliviere to Skinker
in conjunction with Metro Link Expansion.

To the Directors of Health and Hospitals
and Public Safety: 109601, Country Living
Inc., conduct adult day care at 5900 Emma.

LETTINGS

Two sealed proposals for the public
work advertised under Letting No. 8266 –
Taxiway C (D) Reconstruction at Lambert,
and;

Eight under Letting No. 8269 –
Kingshighway Boulevard/Bircher Boulevard
Pavement Reconstruction were received,
publicly opened, read and referred to the
President.

Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Drafts of the following ordinances
approved, and Secretary instructed to forward
same to the Board of Aldermen with the
recommendation that they be passed:

“Board Bill 405 – Second Amendment
to the Airfield Projects Public Works Ordinance
65162 at Lambert…”

“Board Bill 406 – Second Amendment
to the Building Projects Public Works

Ordinance 65163.”
“Board Bill 407 – Fourth Amendment
to Capital Improvement Projects (CIP)
Ordinance 64219.”
Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and Board set date
of March 1, 2005 for opening bids for work
and Secretary instructed to insert the proper
advertisement therefore:
Letting No. 8272 – 2005 Floor
Replacement for: Public Portions of the “A”,
“B” Gates and B/C Connector at Lambert.
Proposed contract and bond ordered
approved as follows:
Letting No. 8261 – New West ARFF
Building at Lambert, K & S Associates, Inc.,
Contract No. 19618.
Addendum No. 2 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8270 – St. Louis
Gateway Transportation Center MultiModal Terminal Building and Concourse
Linkage approved and made part of the original
plans, changing bid opening date to April 5,
2005.
Supplemental Agreement No. 11 to
P.S.A. No. 933 with George Butler Associates,
Inc., for Lansdowne Avenue Bridge over River
des Peres approved and President authorized
to execute same.
Supplemental Agreement No. 2 to P.S.A.
No. 939 with United Infrastructure Corp. for
Environmental Services at Lambert approved
and President authorized to execute same.
P.S.A. No. 1011 with Tri Stem LTD for
Utility Rate Audit approved and President
authori zed to execute same.
Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission Municipal Agreement by and
between the City of St. Louis and the
Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission for Job No. J611605, regarding
Route I-64 at Compton and Market approved
and President authorized to execute same.

Board declared as emergency work for
CJC 2nd Floor Modifications at the St. Louis
City Justice Center.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND STREETS
Application No. 109467, McLeod USA,
install communication system on Ferry Street
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
7 subdivisions ordered approved as
follows, subject to certain conditions: 109585,

Calvin D. & Tonae J. Flemons, Kingshighway
in C.B. 3767, 109586, LRA, Blair/North
Market/14th in C.B. 623, 109587, The Meyer
Co., Euclid and Rosalie in C.B. 4393A,
109588, LRA, Monroe/13th/14th in C.B. 633,
109589, LRA, North Market/Hadley in C.B.
639, 109590, LRA, North Market/13th in C.B.
633, 109591, LRA, Hadley/North Market/13th
in C.B. 638.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Draft of the following ordinance
approved, and Secretary instructed to forward
same to the Board of Aldermen with the
recommendation that it be passed:
“An ordinance to conditionally vacate
the northernmost 15’ wide e/w alley and the
20’ wide n/s alley in C.B. 565 bounded by
O’Fallon, E. 14th, Biddle and 14th.”
4 encroachments ordered approved as
follows, subject to certain conditions: 109564,
Chippewa Styles, wheelchair ramp at 2700
Chippewa, 109593, McGowan Bros.,
wheelchair ramp at 1324 Washington, 109569,
McKinley
Heights
Neighborhood
Association, install banners on S. Jefferson &
Russell, Jefferson & Shenandoah, Gravois &
McNair, Gravois & Mississippi, Russell &
18th, Mississippi & Geyer and Mississippi
& Russell, 109568, Ivanhoe Street Café, LLC,
sidewalk café at 3257-59 Ivanhoe.

DIRECTORS OF STREETS,
PARKS, RECREATION AND
FORESTRY AND
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
Application No. 109501, Mardi Gras
Inc., hold event February 5, 2005 on Market/
Broadway/Miller/7 th/Lynch/I-55/Gravois/
Tucker/12th/Cerre ordered approved, subject
to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY
11 day care centers ordered approved
as follows: 109317, Children’s Enrichment
Center, 210 S. Ewing, 109536, Faith House
Center for Child Development, 5355 Page,
107910, Greater Fellowship Developmental
Center, 5941 Lillian, 109466, Little Angels
Learning Center, 4229 West Finney, 108907,
San Francisco Multiplex Center, 5341
Emerson, 109289, Southwest Baptist Church,
6401 Scanlan, 109178, Wonderland Daycare
& Learning Center, 3672 McRee, 109087,
YMCA Head Start Program, 4632 West
Florissant, 109089, YMCA Head Start
Program, 5035 Manchester, 109214, St.
Cecelia Preschool/Daycare, 5410 Louisiana,
107278, Lot a Luv Child Development Center,
amend capacity at 3632 S. Grand to 26 children
(14 infants and 12 – 2½ - 12 years).

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved, with conditions, as submitted by
the Hearing Officer, per Board Order No. 766.

ROOMING HOUSE AND HOTELS

1 bed and breakfast ordered revoked as
follows, project abandoned: 103653, Two
Boys Inn, 2712 S. Compton.

The following documents were not listed
on the posted Agenda: 267405-410, 267412,
267415-422, 267428 and 267436-41.

Adjourned to meet Tuesday, February
1, 2005 at 1:45 P.M.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri tim e on March 1, 2005,
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
JOB TITLE: ST. LOUIS FIRE STATION
RENOVATIONS PACKAGE 3C; ENGINE
HOUSES 9 AND 20
LETTING NUMBER: 8271
DEPOSIT: $31,325.00

Drawings, Specifications and Form of
Contract may be examined at the Office of the
President of the Board of Public Service,
Room 301 City Hall.

Sets of Drawings, Specifications and
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of
SEVENTY-FIVE dollars ( $ 75.00 ) for each
set.

Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show

in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.
The City of St. Louis will affirmatively
insure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, minority
business enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit bids in response to
this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The
M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.
The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
January 18, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
Attest:
Darlene A. Plump,
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M., March
1, 2005 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which
time they will be publicly opened and read,
viz:
JOB TITLE: 2005 Floor Replacement for:
Public Portions of the A, B, Gates and B/C
Connector at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport®
LETTING NO. 8272
DEPOSIT: $6,946.25
Plans, specifications and general
information may be obtained in the Office of
the Chief Engineer for Planning and
Engineering, Room MT-1296, Airport Main
Terminal, Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport®, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday
through Friday and upon payment of ONE
HUNDRED dollars ($100.00) for each
package. Purchased sets become the property
of the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made. Information concerning this project
may be obtained by telephoning (314) 4268015.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those
items where so called for in the proposal, and
shall show the products of the respective unit
prices and estimated quantities. He shall also
show in figures bid proposals for all items on
which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,
in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the
Lump Sum for which he will perform all of
the estimated work, as requested by the
general requirements and covenants,
specifications and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of

the work completed, less a retained amount
of ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.

“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure
that in any contract entered into pursuant to
this advertisement, minority business
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity
to submit bids in response to this invitation
and will not be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, color or national origin in
consideration for an award.”

The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in
the City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.

All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.

The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.

By order of the Board of Public Service,
January 25, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
Attest:
Darlene A. Plump,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 2, 2005, in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #8409 - Appeal filed by Nelson
& Linda Laffey, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
construct a two story garage at 4714 S.
Broadway. Ward 9 #AB325032-04 ZONE:
“D” – Multiple Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #8410 - Appeal filed by Terry
Turner, from the determination of the Board
of Public Service in the denial of a subdivision
plat authorizing the Appellant to subdivide
property at 3329 and 3333 Lawn. Ward 10
BPS109475 ZONE: “C” – Multiple Family
Dwelling District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
E. Smoot, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 10, 2005, on the
following conditional uses:
4147 Humphrey Street - Home
Occupancy Waiver – Janitorial – (Office Use
Only) – “A” Single Family Dwelling District.
Bl WARD 15
5520 Sutherland Avenue - Home
Occupancy Waiver – Handyman – (Office
Use Only) – “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Pmg WARD 16
2137 Victor - Home Occupancy Waiver
– Roofing – (Office Use Only) – “C” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Pmg WARD 7
2855 Winnebago Street - Home
Occupancy Waiver – Repair Work – (Office
Use Only) – “B” Two Family Dwelling
District. Pmg WARD 20
4028 Wyoming - Home Occupancy
Waiver – Landscape Contractor – (Office Use
Only) – “A” Single Family Dwelling District.
Pmg WARD 15
8430 Hall - #AO328009-05 – Trailer
for inside storage of existing convenience/gas
station items – “K” Unrestricted District. Mv
WARD 2
1040 Lami - #AO326460-04 –
Administrative Law Office – “ D” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Pmg WARD 7

2800-04 Meramec - #AO326468-04 –
Office/Warehouse/Inside Storage of Paint,
Ladders, Etc/Garage – “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Pmg WARD 9

5804 Page - #AO324146-04 - Sit Down
/Carry Out Restaurant - “F Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv WARD 26

1814 N Vandeventer - #AO327577-05
– Salvage/Towing/Office/Sales Car/Part/
Outside Storage (Change of Ownership) – “K”
Unrestricted District. Mv WARD 5
4141 Cook - #AB327003-05 Construct school per plans (Zoning Only) –
“C” Multiple Family Dwelling District. Bl
WARD 19

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Housing, Urban Development and
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on
February 2, 2005 at 10:00 A.M. in the
Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:

BOARD BILL NO. 408
Introduced By
Alderman Matt Villa
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on January 5, 2005, to
change the zoning of property as indicated on
the District Map, to the “H” Area Commercial
District, so as to include the described parcels
of land in City Blocks 3026 and 3030; and
containing an emergency clause.

BOARD BILL NO. 409
Introduced By
Alderman Lewis Reed
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on January 5, 2005, to
change the zoning of several parcels of
property as indicated on the District Map, to
the “I” Central Business District, so as to
include the described parcels of land in City
Block 944; and containing an emergency clause.
Any person wishing to speak for or
against the above cited board bills should be
present.

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Housing, Urban Development and
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on
February 9, 2005 at 10:00 A.M. in the
Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:

BOARD BILL NO. 436
Introduced By
Alderman Thomas Bauer
An ordinance establishing and creating a
Planned Unit Development District for a
portion of City Block 4794 to be known as
the “Clifton Heights Townhomes Subdivision
Planned Unit Development District”.
Any person wishing to speak for or
against the above cited board bills should be
present.

SEALED PROPOSALS
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE CITY OF SAINT LOUIS
Bid No. RFP 013-0405
Sealed proposals will be received by the
St. Louis Public School before closing date,
Monday, February 14, 2005 at 11:00 a.m. 2nd

FL. For furnishing the following:

COPIER MANAGEMENT,
PRINT SHOP/DUPLICATION
AND MAILROOM AND MAIL
DELIVERY SERVICES

Bid will be publicly opened and read at
the above time. The Board of Education
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.

Specifications, inquiries and requirements for bidding may be obtained at the
Office of Materials Management; 801 N. 11th
St., 2nd fl. St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any
questions.

SEALED PROPOSALS
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE CITY OF SAINT LOUIS
Bid No. RFP 012-0405

Sealed proposals will be received by the
St. Louis Public School before closing
date,Tuesday, February 15, 2005 at 11:00 a.m.
2nd FL. For furnishing the following:

VENDING MACHINE OPERATIONS

Bid will be publicly opened and read at
the above time. The Board of Education
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.

Specifications, inquiries and requirements for bidding may be obtained at the
Office of Materials Management; 801 N. 11th
St., 2nd fl. St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any
questions.

SEALED PROPOSALS
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE CITY OF SAINT LOUIS
Bid No. RFP 014-0405

Sealed proposals will be received by the
St. Louis Public School before closing
date,Tuesday, February 08, 2005 at 11:00 a.m.
2nd FL. For furnishing the following:

DOCUMENT IMAGING AND
MANAGEMENT SERVICES

Bid will be publicly opened and read at
the above time. The Board of Education
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.

Specifications, inquiries and requirements for bidding may be obtained at the
Office of Materials Management; 801 N. 11th
St., 2nd fl. St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any
questions.

DEPARTMENT
OF PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS
The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 703,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.
The last date for filing applications for
the following examinations is February 4,
2005.

CIVIL ENGINEER SUPERVISOR
(PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATION
OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
Prom. 1027
$49,504 to $75,712
(Annual Salary Range)
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is February 11,
2005.

PROGRAM MANAGER II
(METRO AIDS PROGRAM)
Prom./O.C. 1028
$49,504 to $75,712
(Annual Salary Range)
Vacation, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefit privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured in the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 703, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet.
Visit the city web site
(www.stlouiscity.com) and link to Jobs with
the City of St. Louis.
Richard R. Frank,
Director

January 26, 2005

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS
CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be

awarded to unlicensed businesses.
Please contact the License Collector,
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may
also refer to our on-line site at
www.stlouiscity.com.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised
that the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
#65597 and associated Regulations apply to
the service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from
Mr. Larry Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or
can be accessed at http://www.st
louiscity.com/living wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
February 1, 2005 - ADVERTISED BIDS
will be received by the undersigned to be
opened at the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for
the items listed below on the dates specified.

Notice to All Suppliers
NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance

with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2005
SURPLUS LUMINAIRES &
BALLASTS FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-36.

SURPLUS MAILING MACHINES &
MICROFILM READERS FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-37.

SURPLUS HYSTER GAS
POWERED FORKLIFT FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-38.

SURPLUS DOUBLE DECK
BAGGAGE CARTS & CARGO
CARTS FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-39.

SURPLUS WIDE BODY
CONTAINER TRAILERS FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-40.

FOUR SURPLUS TRUMP DD 1200
DEICER MACHINES FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-41.

SURPLUS GROUND POWER
UNITS (TOW AROUND) FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-42.

SURPLUS ELECTRICAL ITEMS
FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-43.

SURPLUS ACME VISABLE CARD
FILES FOR SALE
per condemnation #S05-44.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2005
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT PARTS (O.E.M.)
for a period of four (4) years from April 28,
2005.

CONTRACT FOR INDUSTRIAL
PARKS UNIFORMS

for a period of three (3) years from March 14,
2005.

CONTRACT FOR PAGERS
for a period of four (4) years from date of
award.

CONTRACT FOR PIPE
COUPLINGS & REPAIR CLAMPS

for a period of three (3) years from April 5,
2005.

CONTRACT FOR SCRAP STEEL &
SCRAP CAST IRON
for a period of four (4) years from date of
award.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005
COMPIX MEDIA LCG-5000
for furnishing the Communications Division
per Req. #5.

LEADER MODEL 408 TEST
SIGNAL GENERATOR
for furnishing the Communications Division
per Req. #6.

TRAFFIC SIGN POSTS
for furnishing the Traffic Division per Req.
#41.

LUMBER
for furnishing the Parks Division per Req. #91.

TRANSFORMER
for furnishing the Airport Authority per Req.
#283.

MTS 2000 7.5V/1500MAH NICD
BATTERIES
for furnishing the Airport Authority per Req.
#284.

PAVEMENT PROFILER
for furnishing the Street Division per Req.
#307.

CARGO VAN &
EXTENDED BI-FUEL CAB
for furnishing the Water Division per Req.
#1467.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2005
AREARAE GAMMA MONITOR
for furnishing the (CEMA) City Emergency
Management Agency per Req. #301.

ID CARD SYSTEM
for furnishing the (CEMA) City Emergency
Management Agency per Req. #415.

VIBRATORY RAMMER &
CENTRIFUGAL TRASH PUMPS
for furnishing the Water Division per Req.
#1477.

PLASTIC UHMW WEAR STRIPS
for furnishing the Water Division per Req.
#1481.

CONTRACT FOR BREATHING
EQUIPMENT O.E.M. PARTS
(SURVIVAIR)
for a period of four (4) years from May 11,
2005.

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

