The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2011-2012
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, January 27, 2012.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers January 27, 2012.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Moore, Hubbard, Triplett, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels,
Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson
and President Reed. 27

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for January 6 and 13, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

I wish to report that on the 27th day of
January, 2012, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following

board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 225

An Ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis
(the “Board of Public Service”), establishing a
public works and improvement project for
the design and construction of the Traffic
Management Enhancement Project involving
various traffic management improvements on
City of St. Louis arterials and the City’s Traffic
Operation Center computer systems, (the
“Traffic Management Enhancement Project”);
and authorizing and directing the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), by and through its Board
of Public Service, to let contracts and provide
for the design, construction, procurement of
materials, and equipment for the Traffic
Management Enhancement Project,
authorizing the Board of Public Service to
employ labor and consultants, pay salaries,
fees and wages, acquire any and all said real
and personal property rights and interests, in
whole or in part, including easements (by lease,
purchase, eminent domain, condemnation, or
otherwise), as necessary for completion of
the Traffic Management Enhancement
Project, and to enter into supplemental
agreements with the Missouri Highway and
Transportation Commission, Federal
Highway Administration, utilities, railroads,
and other governmental agencies for the
Traffic Management Enhancement Project all
in accordance with the federal Transportation
Equity Act for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.
110, et seq.), with any contract containing
sections for: description of the work, material
guarantees, estimated expenditure allocations,
fund reversion authorization, applicable
federal and state wage rate requirements, equal
opportunity provisions, the Mayor ’s
Executive Orders, and contract advertising
statutes; requiring that all work provided for
herein shall be carried out in accordance with
detailed plans and specifications adopted and
approved by the Board of Public Service before
bids are advertised therefor; directing that all
construction contracts let by authority of this
Ordinance provide for federal and state
prevailing wage requirements including
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and
compliance with all applicable statutes of the
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the
Revised Code of the City, as amended;
requiring all specifications approved by the
Board of Public Service and contracts let by
authority of this Ordinance provide for:
compliance with the Mayor’s Executive Orders
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when
superseded or prohibited by federal or state
law or regulation; contractor’s compliance

with the provisions of Sections 285.525 thru
285.550 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
as amended, by requiring enrollment and
participation in a federal work authorization
program and no knowing employment of
unauthorized aliens; contractor’s compliance
with the provisions of Section 292.675 of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended,
by providing a ten-hour Occupational Safety
and Health Administration construction safety
program for their on-site employees;
contractor’s compliance with the provisions
of Section 34.057 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, as amended, (Prompt Payment/
Retainage), as applicable; requiring all
advertisements for bids pursuant to this
Ordinance be subject to the provisions of
Section 8.250 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, as amended; and appropriating the
total estimated cost of the Traffic
Management Enhancement Project of One
Million, One Hundred Sixty Eight Thousand
Dollars ($1,168,000.00) from the Federal
Highway Administration Safe, Accountable,
Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act:
A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), and
labor and equipment provided by the City of
St. Louis Street Department; authorizing and
directing the Comptroller of the City to draw
warrants from time to time and disburse funds
appropriated by this ordinance and to receive
and disburse grant funds in accordance with
the Transportation Equity Act of the 21st
Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the
signature and certification of vouchers by the
President of the Board of Public Service; and
containing a public work emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 237
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate the 1200 block
of Clarendon Avenue as “Rev. John Watson
Sr. Avenue.”
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
January 27, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit the
following individuals for appointment as
Commissioners to the Tower Grove South
Concerned Citizens Special Business District.

The reappointment of Mr. Tyler
Rohweder, who resides at 3905 Potomac,
63116 and whose term will expire on
December 31st, 2014.

The reappointment of Ms. Betty
Hancock, who resides at 3520 Grace, 63116
and whose term will expire on December 31st,
2015.

I respectfully request your approval of
these appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor

Ms. Florida moved to approve the
following individuals for reappointment as
Commissioners to the Tower Grove South
Concerned Citizens Special Business District:
Mr. Tyler Rohweder and Betty Hancock.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
January 27, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:

I have the pleasure to submit the
following individuals for appointment as
Commissioners to the Locust Central
Business District.

The appointment of Mr. Mark Erney,
who resides at 675 Elmwood, 63119 –
replacing Louis Shaw, and whose term will
expire on December 31st, 2015.

The appointment of Mr. Omar Perkins,
who resides at 1405 Pine Apt. 1001, 63103 –
replacing Tim Estepp, and whose term will
expire on December 31st, 2013.

The appointment of Ms. Cathy Strobel,
who resides at 44 Portland Place, 63108 –
replacing Sam Coleman, and whose term will
expire on December 31st, 2014.

The appointment of Ms. Jennifer
Pruehsner, who resides at 2323 Locust #205,
63103 – replacing Jimmie Miller, and whose
term will expire on December 31st, 2013.

I respectfully request your approval of
these appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor

Ms. Triplett moved to approve the
following individuals for appointment as
Commissioners to the Locust Central
Business District: Mark Erney, Omar Perkins,
Cathy Strobel and Jennifer Pruehsner.
Seconded by Ms. Howard.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
January 27, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Dear Members of the Board:

I have the pleasure to submit the
following individuals for appointment as
Commissioners to the Tax Increment Financing
Commission.

The reappointment of Mr. Eric Young,
who resides at 2358 S. 11th, 63104 and whose
term will expire on December 31st, 2015.

The reappointment of Ms. Shelia
Hudson, who resides at 2228 Hickory, 63104
whose term will expire on December 31st, 2015.
I respectfully request your approval of
these appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
following individuals for reappointment as
Commissioners to the Tax Increment Financing
Commission: Eric Young and Shelia Hudson.
Seconded by Mr. Carter.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Arnowitz introduced by

request:

Board Bill No. 260
An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Sheriff of the City of St. Louis, on behalf
of the Mayor and the City of St. Louis, to
enter into and execute a Grant Agreement with
the Missouri Department of Public Safety, to
fund the Deputy Sheriff Salary
Supplementation Program, upon approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
and to expend funds by entering into contracts
or otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 261
An ordinance pertaining to the New
Jerusalem Church of God in Christ at the
Cathedral, located at 2047 East Grand
Boulevard (the Property) having as subject
matter the designation of the Property as a
City of St. Louis Landmark, containing
definitions, design standards, a severability
clause and an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bill No. 261.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
Board Bill No. 260.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
None.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 27, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 240
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance pertaining to commercial
trucks, truck-tractors, tractors, and
commercial trailer traffic; prohibiting such
traffic on Union Boulevard from the north
boundary of Interstate Highway 70 to south
boundary of West Florissant Avenue,
exempting from said prohibition emergency
vehicles, including privately owned tow
trucks when providing emergency service to
non-commercial vehicles, and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 249

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in the westernmost 100 foot portion of the
15-20 foot wide east/west alley City Block
4906-A as bounded by Waterman, Lake,
Portland Place(private) and Union and also
known as Portland Court in the City of St.
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.
Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 27, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 140

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the

Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing and directing the Mayor and the
Comptroller on behalf of the City of St. Louis
(the “City”) the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”) to accept and execute on behalf of
the City a certain Financial Assistance
Agreement (Grant Agreement No. 2011007)
offered by the St. Louis-Jefferson Solid Waste
Management District (the “Grant Agreement”)
substantially in the form attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” for the project entitled
“Airport Food Waste Recycling
Demonstration Pilot Project” (the “Project”)
for a maximum obligation of Fifteen Thousand
Dollars ($15,000) providing for the
reimbursement of direct costs associated with
Project; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 222

An ordinance recommended by the Port
Authority Commission of the City of St.
Louis authorizing and directing the Mayor and
the Comptroller of the City of St. Louis to
enter into a lease amendment (hereinafter
“Lease Amendment” and attached as Exhibit
1) by and between the City of St. Louis, a
Municipal Corporation of the State of
Missouri (hereinafter called “Lessor”),
through its Mayor and Comptroller, and ACL
Transportation Services LLC, (hereinafter
called “Lessee”).

Board Bill No. 231

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City the
“First Amendment To Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”) Ground
Transportation Concession Agreement” (the
“First Amendment”) to the Ground
Transportation Concession Agreement AL441, between the City and Best
Transportation, Inc. (the “Concessionaire”)
dated June 15, 2009, and authorized by City
Ordinance No. 68353, approved June 8, 2009
(the “Agreement”); the First Amendment to
the Agreement, which is attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part hereof,
was approved by the City’s Airport
Commission, and its terms are more fully
described in Section One of this Ordinance;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 232

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter

into and execute on behalf of the City the
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Airport Office Building Lease Agreement AL221 with a term ending January 31, 2017 (the
“Lease Agreement”), between the City and
Trans States Holdings, Inc. (the “Lessee”), a
State of Delaware corporation, granting to the
Lessee, subject to and in accordance with the
terms, covenants, and conditions of the Lease
Agreement, certain rights and privileges in
connection with the occupancy and use of the
Premises, which is defined and more fully
described in Section 201 of the Lease
Agreement that was approved by the Airport
Commission and is attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part hereof;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 233
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, establishing and
authorizing a public works and improvement
program (the “Airfield, Building & Environs
Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”), consisting of
capital improvement projects to and for the
terminal complexes, concourses, parking
facilities, taxiways, runways, aprons, ramps,
and associated Airport buildings, structures,
and facilities, roadways, driveways and
environs, and other associated Airport
improvements as more fully described in the
attached EXHIBIT A, entitled “PROJECT
LIST” that is incorporated herein, such
authorization including, without limitation,
engineering planning and designing services,
programming services, technical advice and
assistance, inspection services, surveying and
mapping services, appraisal services, legal
services and related costs, CADD services,
the removal or relocation of structures,
obstructions, utilities, equipment, and related
work, grading and landscaping costs and
related work, security services, relocation
costs, transportation costs, remediation costs
and related work, the demolition of
improvements, the costs for the repair,
renovation, or relocation of Airport
improvements including fixtures and
equipment, architectural, engineering and
related consultant and management expense
pertaining to the planning, design, consulting,
installing mock-ups, the preparation and
production of contract documents,
solicitations, bill of sale, or other agreements
or documents, or the advertising and taking of
bids, architect and design services, costs for
structural and maintenance studies, estimating
and cost benefit consulting services, general
engineering services, consulting services and

other technical advice and assistance,
construction management, construction,
installation, renovation, rehabilitations,
repairs, expansion, reconfiguration,
improvement, and inspection work, the
equipping and furnishing of Airport property
including, without limitation, loading bridges,
supplies, materials and equipment, and other
necessary and related work or services for the
development, construction, installation,
implementation, administration, management
or monitoring of the Airfield, Building &
Environs Projects at a total estimated cost of
Fifty Five Million Dollars ($55,000,000);
authorizing an initial appropriation in the total
amount of Seventeen Million One Hundred
Ninety Seven Thousand Three Hundred
Dollars ($17,197,300) from the Airport
Development Fund established under
authority of Ordinance 59286, Section 13,
approved October 26, 1984, to be expended
for the payment of costs for work and services
authorized herein and providing for the receipt
of supplemental appropriations when
authorized by ordinance into this Ordinance
as funds become available to continue the
Airfield, Building & Environs Projects;
authorizing the Mayor and the Comptroller
of the City Of St. Louis (“City”) to enter into
and execute on behalf of the City easement
agreements granting such easements or rightof-ways as are necessary to the administration
or implementation of the Airfield, Building &
Environs Projects and containing such terms,
covenants, and conditions that are in the best
interest of the City, the City’s residents, and
the traveling public; authorizing the Director
of Airports with the approval of the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment to let contracts
providing for mapping, appraisal, and escrow
services, title work, ground maintenance,
security services, legal services, and other
related services for the implementation and
administration of the Airfield, Building &
Environs Projects; authorizing and directing
the Board of Public Service with the advice,
consent, and approval of the Director of
Airports to let contracts for all other approved
work or services, purchase materials, supplies,
and equipment, employ labor, pay salaries,
wages, fees, retain consultants and otherwise
provide for the work or services authorized
herein; providing that any contract let
hereunder, shall be subject to the City’s
Charter and applicable City ordinances and
Missouri State laws or regulations applicable
thereto; authorizing and directing the
Comptroller of the City to draw warrants from
time to time on the Treasurer of the City for
payment of expenses authorized herein upon
submission of properly certified vouchers in
conformance with procedures established by
the Comptroller and, authorizing, as necessary

and appropriate, the Comptroller, Treasurer,
City Counselor, and other appropriate officers,
agents and employees of the City to make
such applications or certifications and provide
such data to the appropriate parties, and to
take whatever action necessary in order to
provide for the payment or reimbursement of
eligible costs authorized herein; authorizing
the Director of Airports to make such
applications and provide such data and to take
whatever action necessary to seek funds under
the Airport Improvement Program, the
Passenger Facility Charge Program or other
federal, state or local programs for projects
herein authorized where such costs or
expenditures are deemed eligible and monies
made available for those costs under federal,
state, or local law or contract, and to authorize
the deposit of such funds as may be
appropriate into this Ordinance to reimburse
or pay in part for the costs of the Airfield,
Building & Environs Projects herein
authorized; directing that all contracts let under
authority of this Ordinance be in compliance
with all applicable minority and women or
disadvantaged business enterprise
requirements and in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, court decisions and
executive orders relating to equal employment
opportunity; and containing a severability and
an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass” : Board
Bills No. 214 (Committee Substitute), 226,
164, 241, 242, 246 (Committee Substitute),
248 and 250.
Seconded by Mr. Williamson.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bill No. 228.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Moore,
Hubbard, Triplett, Conway, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard,
Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis,
Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 27
Noes: 0
Present: 0

Board Bill No. 228
An Ordinance Authorizing The
Execution Of A Transportation Project
Agreement Between The City And The 2118
Chouteau Transportation Development
District; Prescribing The Form And Details
Of Said Agreement; Making Certain Findings
With Respect Thereto; Authorizing Other
Related Actions In Connection With The
Transportation Project; And Containing A
Severability Clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, January 27, 2012.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bill report that they have
considered the same and it is truly enrolled.

Board Bill No. 228
An Ordinance Authorizing The
Execution Of A Transportation Project
Agreement Between The City And The 2118
Chouteau Transportation Development
District; Prescribing The Form And Details
Of Said Agreement; Making Certain Findings
With Respect Thereto; Authorizing Other
Related Actions In Connection With The
Transportation Project; And Containing A
Severability Clause.
Alderman Vollmer
Chairman of the Committee
Board Bill Number 228 was read and all
other business being suspended, Mr. Reed, in
the presence of the Board and in open session,
affixed his signature in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions

No. 297 and 298 and the Clerk was instructed
to read same.

Resolution No. 297

Ann Hood
WHEREAS, Ann Hood is an American
novelist and author of thirteen books. Her
essays and short stories have appeared in
many journal and magazines and she is a regular
contributor to the New York Times; and

WHEREAS, Hood earned her BA in
English from the University of Rhode Island.
She lived in Boston and St. Louis and later
moved to New York City where she attended
graduate school; and

WHEREAS, Hood’s first novel,
Somewhere Off the Coast of Maine, published
in 1983, draws upon her own life as well as
many of her other works; and

WHEREAS, Ann Hood, a wife and
mother, has ventured off into writing for
children at this point with the release of Angel
of the Battlefield #1 ( A Treasure Chest) and
Little Lion (Book #2); and

WHEREAS, Ann Hood is a faculty
member in the MFA Creative Writing Program
at the New School in New York City. She also
teaches at New York University; and

WHEREAS, Ann had been the recipient
of numerous awards including Paul Bowles
Prize for Short Fiction, two Pushcart Prizes
and a Best American Spiritual Writing Award;
and

WHEREAS, on January 31, 2012, the
staff, administration, parents and students of
The McKinley Classical Leadership Academy
will come together to recognize Ann Hood,
who has shared her love for reading and writing
through literature with our community.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Ann Hood and to
thank her for sharing her invaluable talent and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 27th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward

Resolution No. 298
Lynne Cooper
WHEREAS, DOORWAYS INTERFAITH AIDS HOUSING AND SERVICES

has been providing affordable, secure housing
and related supportive services to people
affected by HIV/ AIDS since it was created in
the City of St. Louis nearly 25 years ago; and
WHEREAS, the early conviction of those
who created DOORWAYS - that safe housing
is the basic prerequisite for the effective
treatment, management and prevention of HIV
- has been proven time and again through
nationally respected research; and

WHEREAS, Lynne Cooper has led
DOORWAYS since 1988, building
DOORWAYS from a single building with 4
apartments on Delmar to its current array of
programs and services offering residential care,
rent, mortgage and utility assistance, and
apartments for more than 2500 men, women
and children affected by HIV/AIDS; and

WHEREAS, Lynne Cooper’s tenacious
and visionary leadership at DOORWAYS has
been recognized through numerous housing,
historic preservation and best practice awards,
including HUD’s Gold Star for Community
Partners and the MetLife Foundation’s Award
for Excellence in Affordable Housing; and

WHEREAS, Lynne’s service has
extended beyond the City of St. Louis to
benefit our state and country through her work
on state and national boards, including
President Bill Clinton’s Advisory Council on
HIV/AIDS; and
WHEREAS, Lynne has been recognized
as a Woman of Worth by the Older Women’s
League and has received many other awards,
including awards from Fontbonne University,
Africans United against AIDS Globally and
the AIDS Foundation of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, Lynne is a long-time
resident of the City of St. Louis, where she
has combined her visionary leadership with
hands-on work to make our city a better place
to live, work and raise a family; and
WHEREAS, it is right and appropriate
that the City of St. Louis salute Lynne Cooper
for all she has done and continues to do to
enhance the quality of life for all of us in St.
Louis, especially for those affected by HIV/
AIDS.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Lynne Cooper and
thank her for her many contributions to the
City of Saint Louis and we further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to

our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 27th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 297 amd 298 stood
considered.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 297 and 298 be adopted, at this meeting
of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Bosley and Ms. Young.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return February 3, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - January 31, 2012
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Bryson and
President Bradley.

Absent: None.

Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
January 24, 2012 were unanimously
approved.

Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Memorandum of Agreement (Fire
Department Vehicle Repair) between The BiState Agency of the Missouri-Illinois
Metropolitan District d/b/a Metro and the
City of St. Louis approved and President
authorized to execute same.

Addendum No. 1 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8502 Improvements for the Elevators at 1520
Market approved and made part of the original
plans.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

The Board declared as an emergency
action vacuum and removal of filter media from
Filter #9 at the Howard Bend Water
Treatment Plant’s Filter Plant ordered
approved.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS

Application No. 118016, Union Electric
d/b/a AmerenUE, set and replace poles and
string wires on Scanlan, west of Hampton at
6450 Scanlan ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILTIIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY

2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as listed below: 118058,
1618 Tower Grove Master Landlord LLC, resubdivide land at 4260 and 4266 McRee in
C.B. 5445 and, 118104, Forsyth School Inc.,
consolidate land at 6255 Wydown in C.B.
5598.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

8 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved and 1 Conditional Use Permit
ordered amended as submitted by the Hearing
Officer, per Board Order No. 766: 118111,
3517 St. Louis, banquet hall, no liquor and
cooking, 118112, 7036 Clayton, interior and
exterior alterations for white box (per plans)
for restaurant, 118113, 4673 Kossuth, grass
cutting business (office use only) home
occupancy wavier, 118114, 3956 Burgen,
delivery service (office use only) home
occupancy wavier, 118115, 5341 Arsenal,
carpet cleaning business (office use only) home
occupancy wavier, 118116, 4429 Richard
Place, non profit summer camp for children
business (office use only) home occupancy

wavier, 118117, 6016 Delmar, sit down
restaurant with carryout, wine and beer,
118118, 6405 Hampton, karate studio and,
118085, Mike Jabbar d/b/a Gas Mart, to
occupy 2724 Watson as a gas and convenience
store with 5% liquor and cooking amended
condition Number 4.
Agenda Items for January 31, 2012
ordered approved.
The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
February 7, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
February 28, 2012, St. Louis, Missouri time,
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:

LETTING NO. 8501

JOB TITLE: Concrete Replacement due
to City of St. Louis Water Division
Maintenance and Construction at City
Water Division Distribution Pipeyard

DEPOSIT: $7,100.00

Contract documents and general
information may be obtained in the Water
Division Pipeyard Distribution Office,
4600 McRee Ave., St. Louis, Missouri
63110, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday
through Friday and upon payment of thirtyfive dollars ($35.00) for each package.
Purchased sets become the property of the
prospective bidder and no refunds will be
made. Information concerning this project
may be obtained by telephoning (314) 6339029
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which

Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.
“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that
in any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises
will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color or national origin in consideration for an
award.”
The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
January 17, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri time on February 28, 2012
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
LETTING NO. 8502
JOB TITLE: IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
ELEVATORS AT 1520 MARKET STREET
DEPOSIT: $21,888.00

Drawings, Specifications and Form of
Contract may be examined at the Office of the
President of the Board of Public Service,
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stlbps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).

Sets of Drawings, Specifications and
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of
FIFTY dollars ($50.00) for each set.

Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.

The City of St. Louis will affirmatively
insure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, minority
business enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit bids in response to
this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The
M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.
The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
January 24, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for OPEN-ENDED ARCHITECTURAL
DESIGN SERVICES, LAMBERT-ST.
LOUIS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®.
Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00 PM
CT, February 22, 2012 at Board of Public
Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City Hall,
St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be obtained
from website www.stl-bps.org, under
Contracts & Bids, Professional Services, or
call Bette Behan at 314-589-6214.

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 15, 2012 in Room 208
City Hall to conisder the following:
APPEAL #9930 - Appeal filed by Lou
Fusz D/B/A FIAT of Creve Coeur, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto
showroom (suite 100) at 1015 Locust. WARD
7 #AO495627-12 ZONE: “I” – Central
Business District
APPEAL #9931 - Appeal filed by Robert
Moreland, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to have outside storage of boats and storage
sheds at 4020 Nebraska. WARD 20
#AO494593-11 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District
APPEAL #9932 - Appeal filed by Mark
Anthony Group, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
erect two non-illuminated wall signs, per plans,
at 4704 Jamieson. WARD 16 #AB49493211 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District
APPEAL #9933 - Appeal filed by Dairy
Queen Hampton LLC, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to replace a pole sign (illuminated) and to add
an electronic reader board, per plans, at 5409
Hampton. WARD 16 #AB495457-12
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
APPEAL #9934 - Appeal filed by Ray’s
Coffee Shop, from the determination of the
Board of Public Service in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a full drink bar and coffee shop at
4753-55 Morganford. WARD 19
#AO494411-11 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District BPS 118065
APPEAL #9909 – Appeal filed by Places
for People Inc, from the determination of the
Board of Public Service in the denial of a
request to amend previously issued
conditional use to allow the Appellant to do
interior and exterior alteration for an office
and club room and to remove conditions #1,
#2 and #4 entirely from the permit at 4120
Lindell. (Cont) WARD17 AB492863-11
ZONE: “H” – Area Commercial District
BPS 117950

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 22, 2012 in Room 208
City Hall to conisder the following:

APPEAL #9935 – Appeal filed by 4
Hands Brewing Company, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to install one illuminated wall
sign, per plans, at 1200 S. 8th Street. WARD 7
#AB495469-12 ZONE: “J” – Industrial
District

APPEAL #9936 – Appeal filed by USA
Mortgage, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
install one illuminated wall sign, per plans, at
3250 Hampton. WARD 10 #AB495395-11
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District

APPEAL #9937 – Appeal filed by St.
Anthony of Padus, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
replace existing monument sign with
illuminated signage/electronic message center
at 3140 Meramec. WARD 20 #AB494972-11
ZONE: “E” – Multiple Family Dwelling
District

APPEAL #9938 – Appeal filed by
Doering Engineering, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to construct a parking lot, per plans, at 153242 McCausland. WARD 24 #AB495040-11
ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District

APPEAL #8437 – Appeal file by Auto
Repair, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the revocation of a use
variance and occupancy permit, with
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to
operate an auto repair shop with inside storage
at 4289 Lee. (Revocation Hearing) WARD
21 #AO362592-06 ZONE: “F” Neighborhood Commercial District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 16, 2012 on the
following conditional uses:

6424 Printz Ct. - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Serenity in Home Care (Home Health
Care/Office Use Only) “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 12

1900 Mitchell Pl. - Home Occupancy
Waiver-New Generation (Flooring Contractor/
Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 24

6600 Oleatha - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Gokenbach Brothers (Used Veg./
Motor oil Processing/Office Use Only) “A”
Single Family Dwelling District. Db Ward
23

1127 N. Vandeventer - #AO-49561412-Guardian Angel Settlement Assoc.
(Daycare/117 Children/68 Infants/109 2 ½ to
12 yrs./M-F/6am to 5:30p.m.) “C” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Db Ward 18

4635 Ridgewood - #AO-495682-12ABC Adult Day Health Care (Daycare/40
Adults/8:30 a.m. to 2:30p.m./M-F/No
Cooking/1st fl Rear) “D” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Db Ward 14

5067-69 Delmar - #AB-495522-12Anderson Design Consultants, LLC
(Construct Parking Lot per Plans) “H” Area
Commercial District. Te Ward 18

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 23, 2012 on the
following conditional uses:

1444 Blackstone - Home Occupancy
Waiver-T M L International Cleaning
(Cleaning/Business/Office Use Only) “C”Multiple Family Dwelling District. Db Ward
22

4340 Loughborough - #AO-495685-12Discount Smoke Shop, Inc. (Retail Sales/
Cigarettes/Tobacco w/Full Package Liquor)
“F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Db
Ward 12
4648 Gravois - #AO-495857-12-AlMustafa Supermarket, LLC (Supermarket w/

Cooking/No Liquor) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Db Ward 14
1435 N Market - #AO-495849-12-The
City Bar & Grill (Full Drink Tavern/
Restaurant/Outside Patio/Front) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward
5
286 Debaliviere - #AO-495787-12Family Love Adult Health Care Center (Adult
Day Care/40 Adults/7am to 6pm/M-F/No
Cooking/Ste. A) “H” Area Commercial
District. Te Ward 26
1000 Cerre - Incidental Business
Waiver-St. Louis Carriage Co. (Trolley’s/
Outside Storage of Trolley’s) “K”
Unrestricted District. Bl Ward 7

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY
The City of St. Louis is seeking the
services of a qualified company to provide
hazard tree removal services on private
property.
The Request For Proposals may be
obtained at the Forestry Division, 1415 N.
13 th Street, St. Louis, MO 63106,
commencing Tuesday, January 17, 2012.
Sealed proposals will be received
until 4:00 P.M. on Friday, February 10, 2012
at the Forestry Division.
The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Respondents
shall comply with the Mayor’s Executive
Order 28, as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this bid in part or in its entirety.

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Housing, Urban Development and
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on
February 22, 2012 at 10:00 A.M. in the
Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:

BOARD BILL NO. 258
Introduced By
Alderman Scott Ogilvie,
President Lewis Reed,
Alderman Shane Cohn,
Alderwoman Jennifer Florida
An Ordinance recommended by the City
of St. Louis Planning Commission, requiring
residential and commercial bicycle parking

under the Zoning Code for all new
construction or renovations equal to or in
excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000);
containing definitions; bicycle rack
construction requirement, bicycle rack site
requirements, bicycle parking requirements,
exemptions, off-street parking reduction, an
administrative waiver provision and a
severability clause.

Any person wishing to speak for or
against the above cited board bill should be
present.
Sincerely,
Donna A. Booker
Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an applications
for the following examinations is FEBRUARY
17, 2012,

VETERINARIAN TECHNICIAN
Prom./O.C. 1873
$25,714 to $38,038 (Annual Salary Range)

WATER TREATMENT PLANT OPERATOR
Prom./O.C. 1874
$36,478 to $57,902 (Annual Salary Range)

Applications for the following
examinations will be accepted until a sufficient
number are received to fill the current
vacancies. Please submit application as soon
as possible.

COMMISSIONER OF CORRECTIONS
Prom./O.C.C. 1871
$95,212 to $142,246 (Annual Salary Range)

VETERINARIAN
Prom./O.C.C. 1872
$54,860 to $81,744 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative

weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
February 1, 2012

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be

accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
FEBRUARY 7, 2012 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2012
COLOR COPIER LEASE
for Communications Division per Req. #4.
(SC)

COLOR COPIER LEASE
for City Counselor’s Office per Req. #13.
(SC)

T-SHIRTS
for Forestry Division per Req. #54. (SC)

INVENSYS ACTUATOR PART
#MP-485-0-2-2
for Airport Authority per Req. #295. (BF)

BELL & GOSSETT PUMP SERIES
1510 BEARING ASSEMBLY
PART #185011
for Airport Authority per Req. #296. (BF)

RADIODETECTION RD 8000 KIT
for Airport Authority per Req. #299. (BF)

COLOR COPIER LEASE
for Airport Authority per Req. #304. (SC)

300LB CUBE ICE MACHINE
for Airport Authority per Req. #306. (SC)

MAGNETIS LOCATOR
for Water Division per Req. #1420. (BF)

2 IN. X 8 FT. 2 PLY NYLON
STRAP CHOCKER
for Water Division per Req. #1422. (BF)

PREMIUM TABLE TOP POP-UP
DISPLAY
for C.E.M.A. per Req. #6000. (LC)

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2012
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING FOR FURNITURE
FOR ST. LOUIS DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION.

THE MEETING WILL BE AT 10:00
AM AT 1520 MARKET STREET; 1ST
FLOOR, ST. LOUIS, MO 63103.

VENDORS MUST HAVE A
REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE
MEETING IN ORDER TO SUBMIT A BID.
(SC)

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012

THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING FOR CONTRACT
FOR JUVENILE DIVISION FOOD
SERVICE MANAGEMENT FOR A
PERIOD OF ONE (1) YEAR FROM JULY
1, 2012.

THE MEETING WILL BE AT 2:00 PM
AT 3847 ENRIGHT, ST. LOUIS, MO
63108.

VENDORS MUST HAVE A
REPRESENTATIVE PRESENT AT THE
MEETING IN ORDER TO SUBMIT A BID.
(SC)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2012
TRACTOR WITH TRIPLE GANG
FLAIL MOWERS
for Airport Authority per Req. #302. (LC)

2012 CHEVROLET SILVERADO
2WD REGULAR CAB PICK UP
for Airport Authority per Req. #303. (SC)

THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
FURNITURE
FOR ST. LOUIS DEVELOPEMENT
CORPORATION. (SC)

TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2012
BID PROPOSAL FOR JUVENILE
DIVISION FOOD SERVICE

FOR A PERIOD OF ONE (1) YEAR FROM
JULY 1, 2012. (SC)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to:
http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm
then, search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property

Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

