The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2012-2013
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, January 18, 2013.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers January 18, 2013.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Young,
Conway, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels,
Howard, Florida, Baringer, Kennedy, Davis,
Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 26

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
None.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

I wish to report that on the 18th day of
January, 2013, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 256

An ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing a supplemental appropriation;
amending Ordinance 69154, commonly
referred to as the City of St. Louis Annual
Operating Plan for Fiscal Year 2012 2013;
appropriating Forty Thousand Dollars
($40,000) from excess payments on water bills
and personal and real property tax bills
received into the “Heat-up St. Louis Fund”,
“The Big Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern
Missouri Fund,” “The Backstoppers, Inc.
Fund” and the “Pet Spay, Neuter and
Microchip Assistance Fund” and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 195

An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller of The City of
St. Louis (the “City”) to enter into and execute
on behalf of the City the “First Amendment
To East Terminal Agency Agreement” (the
“First Amendment”) to the Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® East Terminal Agency
Agreement AL-446 between the City and
Airport Terminal Services, Inc., dated
December 27, 2007, and authorized by City
Ordinance No. 67787, approved November
30, 2007 (the “Agreement”); the First
Amendment, which is attached hereto as
ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part hereof,
was approved by the City’s Airport
Commission, and its terms are more fully
described in Section One of this Ordinance;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 196

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
The City of St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”)
to enter into and execute on behalf of the City
a Service Agreement for Solid Waste Disposal
& Recycling Services at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (the “Airport”) with
a five (5) year term commencing on March 1,
2013 and ending on February 28, 2018 (the
“Agreement”), between the City and Allied
Services, LLC, a limited liability corporation
of the State of Delaware, doing business as
Republic Services (the “Contractor”),
providing for the disposal and recycling of
solid waste for the Airport subject to and in
accordance with provisions of the Agreement,
which was awarded to the Contractor and
approved by the City’s Airport Commission,
and is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT
“1” and made a part hereof; containing a

severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 197
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, establishing and
authorizing a public works and improvement
program (the “Building & Environs Projects”)
at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
(the “Airport”), consisting of capital
improvement projects to and for the terminal
complexes, concourses, parking facilities,
roadways and associated Airport buildings,
structures, and facilities, roadways, driveways
and environs, and other associated Airport
improvements as more fully described in the
attached EXHIBIT A, entitled “PROJECT
LIST” that is incorporated herein, such
authorization including, without limitation,
engineering planning and designing services,
programming services, technical advice and
assistance, inspection services, surveying and
mapping services, appraisal services, legal
services and related costs, CADD services,
the removal or relocation of structures,
obstructions, utilities, equipment, and related
work, grading and landscaping costs and
related work, security services, relocation
costs, transportation costs, remediation costs
and related work, the demolition of
improvements, the costs for the repair,
renovation, or relocation of Airport
improvements including fixtures and
equipment, architectural, engineering and
related consultant and management expense
pertaining to the planning, design, consulting,
installing mock-ups, the preparation and
production of contract documents,
solicitations, bill of sale, or other agreements
or documents, or the advertising and taking of
bids, architect and design services, costs for
structural and maintenance studies, estimating
and cost benefit consulting services, general
engineering services, consulting services and
other technical advice and assistance,
construction management, construction,
installation, renovation, rehabilitations,
repairs, expansion, reconfiguration,
improvement, and inspection work, the
equipping and furnishing of Airport property
including, without limitation, aircraft rescue
firefighter vehicles, runway brooms, supplies,
materials and equipment, and other necessary
and related work or services for the
development, construction, installation,
implementation, administration, management
or monitoring of the Building & Environs
Projects at a total estimated cost of Four
Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($4,250,000); authorizing an initial
appropriation in the total amount of Four

Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($4,250,000) from the Airport Development
Fund established under authority of Ordinance
59286, Section 13, approved October 26,
1984, to be expended for the payment of costs
for work and services authorized herein;
authorizing the Mayor and the Comptroller
of The City of St. Louis (“City”) to enter into
and execute on behalf of the City easement
agreements granting such easements or rightof-ways as are necessary to the administration
or implementation of the Building & Environs
Projects and containing such terms, covenants,
and conditions that are in the best interest of
the City, the City’s residents, and the traveling
public; authorizing the Director of Airports
with the approval of the Airport Commission
and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment to let contracts providing for
mapping, appraisal, and escrow services, title
work, ground maintenance, security services,
legal services, and other related services for
the implementation and administration of the
Building & Environs Projects; authorizing and
directing the Board of Public Service with the
advice, consent, and approval of the Director
of Airports to let contracts for all other
approved work or services, purchase
materials, supplies, and equipment, employ
labor, pay salaries, wages, fees, retain
consultants and otherwise provide for the
work or services authorized herein; providing
that any contract let hereunder, shall be subject
to the City’s Charter and applicable City
ordinances and Missouri State laws or
regulations applicable thereto; authorizing and
directing the Comptroller of the City to draw
warrants from time to time on the Treasury
of the City for payment of expenses
authorized herein upon submission of
properly certified vouchers in conformance
with procedures established by the
Comptroller and, authorizing, as necessary
and appropriate, the Comptroller, Treasurer,
City Counselor, and other appropriate officers,
agents and employees of the City to make
such applications or certifications and provide
such data to the appropriate parties, and to
take whatever action necessary in order to
provide for the payment or reimbursement of
eligible costs authorized herein; authorizing
the Director of Airports to make such
applications and provide such data and to take
whatever action necessary to seek funds under
the Airport Improvement Program, the
Passenger Facility Charge Program or other
federal, state or local programs for projects
herein authorized where such costs or
expenditures are deemed eligible and monies
made available for those costs under federal,
state, or local law or contract, and to authorize
the deposit of such funds as may be
appropriate into this Ordinance to reimburse

or pay in part for the costs of the Building &
Environs Projects herein authorized; directing
that all contracts let under authority of this
Ordinance be in compliance with all applicable
minority and women or disadvantaged
business enterprise requirements and in
compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws, ordinances, regulations, court
decisions and executive orders relating to equal
employment opportunity; and containing a
severability and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 257

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing and
directing the Comptroller, the City Counselor
and the Director of Airports of The City of
St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”) to enter into,
execute, and deliver on behalf of the City a
Settlement Agreement substantially in the form
as set out in ATTACHMENT 1 to this
Ordinance (the “Settlement Agreement”),
which is attached hereto and incorporated
herein, between the City, the owner and
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”) and American
Airlines, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(“American”), providing for a comprehensive
resolution of all matters and controversies,
including all lease, debt, and any and all other
claims and issues arising under and related to
certain agreements between the City and
American which are part of American’s
Chapter 11 reorganization case and
proceedings commenced under Title 11 of the
United States Code on November 29, 2011,
which case is pending in the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District
of New York in an administratively
consolidated case entitled In re AMR
Corporation, et al., Chapter 11 Case No. 1115463 (SHL) (the “Bankruptcy Case”),
including, without limitation, certain
acknowledgements by the City and American,
administrative modifications, amendments,
and/or the assumption of certain agreements
between the City and American, the waiver
and/or release of certain rights and claims, and
the allowance and payment of certain claims,
all subject to and in accordance with the
provisions of the Settlement Agreement;
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports, the President of the Board of Public
Service, and the Comptroller of the City, as
the case may be, to enter into, execute and
deliver on behalf of the City certain
amendments to agreements with American as
more fully described in Section Three of this
Ordinance; authorizing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller, on behalf of
the City, with the advice and concurrence of

the City Counselor, to make such changes,
modifications, or amendments to the terms of
the Settlement Agreement and/or enter into,
execute and deliver such amendments to the
Settlement Agreement that may be deemed
necessary or desirable to preserve and protect
the City’s interest, and deemed necessary or
appropriate in connection with the
Bankruptcy Case, and/or the consummation
of the transactions contemplated herein;
authorizing the Director of Airports and the
Comptroller of the City to negotiate, enter
into, execute, and deliver on behalf of the City
such agreements or instruments that may be
deemed necessary or desirable in order to
alienate or otherwise sell the City’s “MOA
Unsecured Claim”, as provided for in Section
Five of this Ordinance; authorizing the Mayor,
the Comptroller, the Treasurer, the City
Counselor, the Register, the President of the
Board of Public Service, the Director of
Airports, and other appropriate officers,
agents, and employees of the City, as the case
may be, with the advice and concurrence of
the Director of Airports and the City
Counselor to execute such documents and take
such action as are necessary or desirable in
connection with the Settlement Agreement,
the Bankruptcy Case, or deemed necessary
to preserve or protect the City’s interest;
providing that the provisions set forth in this
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to
this Ordinance and the Settlement Agreement
and amendments attached thereto and the
other agreements, documents, and instruments
referenced herein, related thereto, and
contemplated therein and/or approved and/or
authorized by this Ordinance; and containing
a severability clause.
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Bosley introduced by

request:

Board Bill No. 284

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service authorizing the 2013 St.
Louis Works and the 50/50 Sidewalk Programs
City Wide providing for the construction and
reconstruction of gutters, streets, driveways,
spot curbs, sidewalks, alleys, traffic controls,
beautification, tree planting, resurfacing and
related engineering adjustments listed herein,
appropriating $5,000,000.00 from the Street
Improvement Fund; containing sections for
description of the work, approval of plans
and specifications, work and material
guarantees, estimated costs from City funds
and supplemental agreements and reversion
authorizations, applicable state and federal
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity
provisions, the Mayor’s Executive Orders,
contract advertising statutes, and a public
work emergency clause.

Board Member Flowers introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 285

An ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St.
Louis, authorizing and directing the
Department of Streets, on behalf of the City
of St. Louis, to enter into a contract between
the City of St. Louis and Union Electric
Company, doing business as Ameren
Missouri, a Missouri corporation, for street
and outdoor lighting service for certain
facilities within the territorial limits of the City
of St. Louis, subject to amendment, for a period
of ten (10) years commencing on the date of
execution of the contract, in substantially the
form and as attached hereto as Exhibit 1 with
its Exhibit A, Appendix 1, and Appendix 2;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Member Wessels introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 286

An ordinance authorizing the St. Louis
City Board of Election Commissioners, upon
approval of the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment, to expend any funds received
by the St. Louis City Board of Election
Commissioners from the Voting System grant
for assistance in meeting and maintaining Title
III requirements listed in HAVA Public Law
and from the MCVR Voter List Efficiency
grant for assistance in improving and utilizing
the Missouri Centralized Voter Registration
System (“MCVR”) to fulfill the obligations
of said grants, and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Member Wessels introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 287

An Ordinance Approving The Petition
Of An Owner Of Certain Real Property To
Establish A Community Improvement
District, Establishing The Union Station
Community Improvement District, Finding
A Public Purpose For The Establishment Of
The Union Station Community Improvement
District, Authorizing the Execution of a
Transportation Project Agreement Between
The City And The Union Station
Transportation Development District,
Prescribing The Form And Details Of Said
Agreement, Making Certain Findings With
Respect Thereto, Authorizing Other Related
Actions In Connection With The TDD Project,
And Containing A Severability Clause.

Board Member Wessels introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 288

An Ordinance Authorizing The
Execution Of A Cooperation Agreement And
Authorizing Reimbursement In Accordance
Therewith, And Containing A Severability
Clause.

Board Member Baringer introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 289

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to amend Section One of
Ordinance 69237 dated July 24, 2012 by
revising legal description of the western
178.18' + 10.28' of the 20' wide east/west alley
in City Block 6190 as bounded by Chippewa,
Donovan and Landsdowne in the City of St.
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
None.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.

Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bills No. 284, 285 and 289.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bills No. 286, 287 and 288.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Wessels of the Committee on
Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
submitted the following report which was
read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 18, 2013.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Housing, Urban
Development and Zoning to whom was
referred the following Board Bills, report that
they have considered the same and recommend
adoption.

Board Bill No. 280
(Committee Substitute)
An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a
Redevelopment Area known as the St. Louis
Innovation District Redevelopment Area
pursuant to the Real Property Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act; adopting and
approving a Redevelopment Plan; adopting
and approving Redevelopment Projects for
Redevelopment Project Area 1A and
Redevelopment Project Area 1B, as described
in the Redevelopment Plan; adopting tax
increment financing within Redevelopment
Project Area 1A and Redevelopment Project
Area 1B; making findings with respect thereto;
establishing the St. Louis Innovation District
Special Allocation Fund; authorizing certain
actions by city officials; and containing a
severability clause.

Board Bill No. 281
(Committee Substitute)
An Ordinance affirming adoption of a
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,
and Redevelopment ProjectS; authorizing the
execution of a Redevelopment Agreement
between the City of St. Louis, Missouri, and
St. Louis Innovation District, LLC;
prescribing the form and details of said
agreement; designating St. Louis Innovation

District, LLC, as developer of the
redevelopment area; making certain findings
with respect thereto; authorizing other related
actions in connection with the redevelopment
of certain property within the redevelopment
area; amending Ordinance No. 66633; and
containing a severability clause.
Alderman Wessels
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 18, 2013.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 261

An Ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment repealing certain
ordinances pertaining to the regulation of and
schedule of fees and charges for ground
transportation operators at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport (the Airport”), to wit:
Ordinance 64406, approved July 1, 1998,
Ordinance 65492, approved July 15, 2003 and
Ordinance 66855, approved October 3, 2005;
and enacting a new ordinance having the same
subject matter: (i) containing a definitions
section; (ii) authorizing the Airport Director
to issue regulations governing the conduct of
ground transportation operators at the
Airport, to enter into, execute, issue and amend
Airport ground transportation use agreements
(“Permits”) and renew Permits to ground
transportation operators, and to establish
procedures for determining adjusted gross
receipts; (iii) requiring any ground
transportation operator to secure a Permit to
use designated areas at the Airport to conduct
its business; (iv) establishing a schedule of
fees and charges which must be paid by ground
transportation operators to conduct business
at the Airport; (v) establishing a schedule of
fees and charges which must be paid by ground
transportation operators at the Airport as a
condition precedent to the rights granted to
the operator under the Permit; (vi) prohibiting
solicitation by ground transportation
operators, off-Airport rental car operators and
off-Airport parking operators; (vii) providing
for the filing by ground transportation
operators of certain reports with the Airport
Director and for the auditing of the reports;
and (viii) providing for denial, suspension or

revocation of a Permit for cause and a
procedure for appealing the denial, suspension
or revocation; containing a severability clause;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 262

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the issuance by The City of St. Louis,
Missouri, of its Airport Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2013 (Non-AMT), LambertSt. Louis International Airport, in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed Thirty-Seven
Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($37,500,000) (the “Series 2013 Bonds”) in
one or more series to effect the refunding of
all or a portion of the City’s outstanding
Airport Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2003A (Non-AMT), Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport (the “Series 2003A
Bonds”); providing for the funding of any
required reserve funds and for the payment of
costs of issuance and other related transaction
costs with respect to the issuance of the Series
2013 Bonds; setting forth terms and conditions
for the issuance of the Series 2013 Bonds;
appointing a trustee, a bond registrar and a
paying agent in connection with the Series
2013 Bonds; appointing an escrow agent in
connection with the outstanding Series 2003A
Bonds to be refunded with the proceeds of
the Series 2013 Bonds; approving the form
and authorizing the execution and delivery of
the Nineteenth Supplemental Indenture of
Trust with respect to the issuance of the Series
2013 Bonds including any conforming or
clarifying amendments to the Amended and
Restated Indenture of Trust, as amended and
supplemented, of the City; authorizing the
negotiated sale of the Series 2013 Bonds and
the execution and delivery of a Bond Purchase
Agreement, an Escrow Agreement, if any, and
other matters with respect thereto; authorizing
the preparation, execution and distribution of
the Preliminary Official Statement and the
Official Statement and the preparation,
execution and delivery of the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement; authorizing the
negotiation and purchase of credit
enhancement (including bond insurance, credit
facilities, and sureties), if any, and any
necessary related documents; authorizing the
proper officials, agents and employees of the
City to execute such documents and to take
such actions as are necessary or appropriate
in connection with the foregoing matters;
repealing ordinances of the City to the extent
inconsistent with the terms hereof; and
containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 263

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Comptroller and the Board of Estimate and

Apportionment, making certain findings with
respect to the transfer of up to Thirteen
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars
($13,727,769) of excess moneys that The City
of St. Louis (the “City”), the owner and
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”), intends to transfer
from the Debt Service Stabilization Fund (the
“DSSF”) to the Airport Revenue Fund (the
“Revenue Fund”) in accordance with Section
516.B of the Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® Indenture of Trust between the City,
as Grantor, and UMB Bank, N.A., as Trustee,
dated as of October 15, 1984, as amended and
restated as of July 1, 2009, as amended and
supplemented (the “Indenture”); authorizing
a transfer in an amount not to exceed Thirteen
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars
($13,727,769) from the DSSF into the
Revenue Fund to be used to make funds
available to mitigate rates on an annual basis
during the term of the Airport Use and Lease
Agreement commencing July 1, 2011;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 264
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City the
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Lease Agreement AL-226 (the “Lease
Agreement”), between the City and Jet Linx
St. Louis, LLC (the “Lessee”), a limited
liability company organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Delaware, granting to
the Lessee, subject to and in accordance with
the terms, covenants, and conditions of the
Lease Agreement, certain rights and privileges
in connection with the occupancy and use of
the Leased Premises, which is defined and
more fully described in Section 201 of the
Lease Agreement that was approved by the
Airport Commission and is attached hereto
as ATTACHMENT “1” and made a part
hereof; containing a severability clause; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 276
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City the
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Lease Agreement AL-230 (the “Lease
Agreement”), between the City and Laclede

Venture Corp. (“Lessee”), a Missouri
corporation, granting to the Lessee, subject to
and in accordance with the terms, covenants,
and conditions of the Lease Agreement, certain
rights and privileges in connection with the
occupancy and use of the Leased Premises,
which is defined and more fully described in
Section 201 of the Lease Agreement that was
approved by the Airport Commission and is
attached hereto as ATTACHMENT “1” and
made a part hereof; containing a severability
clause; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 277

An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller of The City of
St. Louis (the “City”) to enter into and execute
on behalf of the City Modification No. 4
(Supplemental Agreement No.4) (the “Fourth
Amendment”) to the Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® Land Lease
(DACA41-5-72-135) between the City and
The United States of America (the
“Government”), dated July 1, 1972, as
previously amended; the Fourth Amendment,
which is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT
“1” and made a part hereof, was approved by
the City’s Airport Commission, and its terms
are more fully described in Section One of
this Ordinance; containing a severability
clause; and containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

Ms. Krewson of the Committee on
Ways and Means submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 18, 2013.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 160
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance pertaining to mortgage
foreclosure intervention; and containing a
penalty, severability and emergency clause.
Alderwoman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bills No. 235, 236,
251, 252, 97, 233, 259 and 247.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Moore,
Hubbard, Young, Conway, Vollmer, Villa,
Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard, Florida,
Baringer, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,
Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 26
Noes: 0
Present: 0

Board Bill No. 235

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “C” MultipleFamily Dwelling District to the “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District, in City
Block 4837 (5012, 5014 & 5016 Enright), so
as to include the described parcels of land in
City Block 4837; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 236

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “B” Two-Family
Dwelling District and “H” Area Commercial
District to the “H” Area Commercial District
only, in City Block 1495 (3522 Utah and 3521,
3523, 3527 & 3529-41 McKean), so as to
include the described parcels of land in City
Block 1495; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 251

An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a
redevelopment area known as the Northeast
Hampton Berthold Redevelopment Area
pursuant to the Real Property Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act; approving a
redevelopment plan and a redevelopment
project with respect thereto; adopting tax
increment financing within the redevelopment
area; making findings with respect thereto;
establishing the Northeast Hampton Berthold
Special Allocation Fund; authorizing certain

actions by City officials; and containing a
severability clause.

Board Bill No. 252
An Ordinance affirming adoption of a
redevelopment plan, redevelopment area, and
redevelopment project; authorizing the
execution of redevelopment agreement
between the City of St. Louis and Tri-Star
Imports, Inc.; prescribing the form and details
of said agreement; designating Tri-Star
Imports, Inc. as developer of the
redevelopment area; making certain findings
with respect thereto; authorizing other related
actions in connection with the redevelopment
of certain property within the redevelopment
area; and containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 97
An ordinance enacting a curfew for Marie
Fowler Park and Phillip J. Lucier Park,
containing an exception for persons holding
permits, and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 233
An Ordinance establishing a four way
stop site at the intersection of Logan Street
and Lowell Street by regulating all eastbound
and westbound traffic traveling on Logan
Street at Lowell Street and regulating all
northbound and southbound traffic traveling
on Lowell Street at Logan Street and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 259
An ordinance recommended by the Port
Authority Commission of the City of St.
Louis, repealing ordinance 68909, which
authorized an Option to Lease Agreement and
Lease Agreement between the City of St. Louis
(“City”) and Grace Hill Settlement House
(“Grace Hill”), and enacting a new ordinance
authorizing and directing the Mayor and the
Comptroller to enter into a Lease Agreement
between the City and Great Rivers Greenway
District (“District”) for certain land on the
Unimproved Wharf for a period of ten (10)
years commencing on the date of execution
with three (3) five-year (5-year) mutual
options, in substantially the form as Exhibit 1
and Appendix A attached hereto and
incorporated by reference herein as Exhibit 1
and Appendix A.

Board Bill No. 247
An ordinance establishing a four way
stop site at the intersection of McNair Avenue
and Victor Street by regulating all north-south
traffic traveling on McNair Avenue
approaching such intersection and containing
an emergency clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS

Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, January 18, 2013.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bill report that they have
considered the same and it is truly engrossed.

Ms. Young moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bill No. 258.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard, Young,
Conway, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels,
Howard, Florida, Baringer, Schmid, Boyd,
Vaccaro, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson
and President Reed. 20
Noes: Moore, French, Ogilvie. 3
Present: Kennedy. 1

Board Bill No. 258

An ordinance relating to parks; imposing,
under and by the authority of Sections
67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012),
subject to the approval of the voters, an
additional three-sixteenths of one cent sales
tax on all retail sales made in the City of St.
Louis which are subject to taxation as provided
for in Sections 144.010 to 144.525 and
67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo, for the purpose
of funding the operation and maintenance of
the Metropolitan Park and Recreation District
and parks owned by and located in the City
of St. Louis, in addition to any and all other
sales taxes allowed by law; submitting to the
qualified voters of the City of St. Louis a
proposal to approve this Ordinance; providing
for an election and the manner of voting
thereat; providing that if such question shall
receive the votes of a majority of the voter
voting thereon that such tax shall be authorized
and in effect as provided in Sections 67.1700
to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012);
providing that the tax imposed pursuant to
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be a tax
on all retail sales made in the City of St. Louis
which are subject to taxation under the
provisions of Sections 144.010 to 144.525
and 67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo; providing for
the allocation of the proceeds of such tax to
certain purposes; providing that certain real
property previously designated as part of the
Gateway Mall Master Plan shall instead be
part of the projects funded by the portion of

such proceeds applied by the Metropolitan
Park and Recreation District pursuant to this
Ordinance; and containing an interpretation
clause, a severability clause and an emergency
clause.
Alderman Vollmer
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE

Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, January 18, 2013.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 235

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “C” MultipleFamily Dwelling District to the “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District, in City
Block 4837 (5012, 5014 & 5016 Enright), so
as to include the described parcels of land in
City Block 4837; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 236

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 7, 2012,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “B” Two-Family
Dwelling District and “H” Area Commercial
District to the “H” Area Commercial District
only, in City Block 1495 (3522 Utah and 3521,
3523, 3527 & 3529-41 McKean), so as to
include the described parcels of land in City
Block 1495; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 251

An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a
redevelopment area known as the Northeast
Hampton Berthold Redevelopment Area
pursuant to the Real Property Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act; approving a
redevelopment plan and a redevelopment
project with respect thereto; adopting tax
increment financing within the redevelopment
area; making findings with respect thereto;
establishing the Northeast Hampton Berthold
Special Allocation Fund; authorizing certain
actions by City officials; and containing a
severability clause.

Board Bill No. 252
An Ordinance affirming adoption of a

redevelopment plan, redevelopment area, and
redevelopment project; authorizing the
execution of redevelopment agreement
between the City of St. Louis and Tri-Star
Imports, Inc.; prescribing the form and details
of said agreement; designating Tri-Star
Imports, Inc. as developer of the
redevelopment area; making certain findings
with respect thereto; authorizing other related
actions in connection with the redevelopment
of certain property within the redevelopment
area; and containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 97
An ordinance enacting a curfew for Marie
Fowler Park and Phillip J. Lucier Park,
containing an exception for persons holding
permits, and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 233
An Ordinance establishing a four way
stop site at the intersection of Logan Street
and Lowell Street by regulating all eastbound
and westbound traffic traveling on Logan
Street at Lowell Street and regulating all
northbound and southbound traffic traveling
on Lowell Street at Logan Street and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 259
An ordinance recommended by the Port
Authority Commission of the City of St.
Louis, repealing ordinance 68909, which
authorized an Option to Lease Agreement and
Lease Agreement between the City of St. Louis
(“City”) and Grace Hill Settlement House
(“Grace Hill”), and enacting a new ordinance
authorizing and directing the Mayor and the
Comptroller to enter into a Lease Agreement
between the City and Great Rivers Greenway
District (“District”) for certain land on the
Unimproved Wharf for a period of ten (10)
years commencing on the date of execution
with three (3) five-year (5-year) mutual
options, in substantially the form as Exhibit 1
and Appendix A attached hereto and
incorporated by reference herein as Exhibit 1
and Appendix A.

Board Bill No. 247
An ordinance establishing a four way
stop site at the intersection of McNair Avenue
and Victor Street by regulating all north-south
traffic traveling on McNair Avenue
approaching such intersection and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 258
An ordinance relating to parks; imposing,
under and by the authority of Sections
67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012),
subject to the approval of the voters, an
additional three-sixteenths of one cent sales

tax on all retail sales made in the City of St.
Louis which are subject to taxation as provided
for in Sections 144.010 to 144.525 and
67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo, for the purpose
of funding the operation and maintenance of
the Metropolitan Park and Recreation District
and parks owned by and located in the City
of St. Louis, in addition to any and all other
sales taxes allowed by law; submitting to the
qualified voters of the City of St. Louis a
proposal to approve this Ordinance; providing
for an election and the manner of voting
thereat; providing that if such question shall
receive the votes of a majority of the voter
voting thereon that such tax shall be authorized
and in effect as provided in Sections 67.1700
to 67.1769 RSMo (August 28, 2012);
providing that the tax imposed pursuant to
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be a tax
on all retail sales made in the City of St. Louis
which are subject to taxation under the
provisions of Sections 144.010 to 144.525
and 67.1700 to 67.1769 RSMo; providing for
the allocation of the proceeds of such tax to
certain purposes; providing that certain real
property previously designated as part of the
Gateway Mall Master Plan shall instead be
part of the projects funded by the portion of
such proceeds applied by the Metropolitan
Park and Recreation District pursuant to this
Ordinance; and containing an interpretation
clause, a severability clause and an emergency
clause.
Alderman Vollmer
Chairman of the Committee

Board Bills Numbered 235, 236, 251,
252, 97, 233, 259, 247 and 258 were read and
all other business being suspended, Mr. Reed,
in the presence of the Board and in open
session, affixed his signature in accordance
with the provisions of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR

President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 224 through 229 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 224

Shirley Polk
WHEREAS, Shirley Whitney Polk was
born July 20, 1935 in St. Louis to parents
Blunt and Emma Whitney; and

WHEREAS, Shirley was married to her
loving husband Albert (Al) Polk for 51 years.
To their union, two sons were born, Allen
Whitney and Michael Whitney Polk, who
preceded her in death; and
WHEREAS, Shirley was employed at
BJC Hospital for 43 years in nursing service.
She retired in 2006; and

WHEREAS, Shirley was Vice President
and co-owner of SPP Productions Fashion
Modeling and Talent Agency of St. Louis. She
was the author of a cookbook titled “Shirley
in the Kitchen.” She was a lifelong member of
Transfiguration Lutheran Church of St. Louis
at 1807 Biddle Street; and

WHEREAS, Shirley moved to the 5700
block of DeGiverville in the early 1960’s and
she resided on the block for 43 years; and
WHEREAS, Shirley through her faithful
commitment to serve as a positive mentor and
role model, was able to encourage
neighborhood youth to achieve academic
success and realize their full potential; and
WHEREAS, Shirley was a board
member of the Skinker DeBaliviere
Community Council (SDCC) in its early years
and she served as an at-large member for more
than 20 years from 1987-2010; and
WHEREAS, Shirley spearheaded an
annual food drive for a number of years and
sponsored the West End Picnic in Forest Park
every August for children in the area; and
WHEREAS, Shirley’s unwavering
generosity to organize various neighborhood
events positively impacted the SDCC
residents and the community at large; and
WHEREAS, Shirley worked tirelessly
to effect change in the Skinker DeBaliviere
neighborhood to bring about diversity,
economic growth and social change; and
WHEREAS, Shirley Polk was also a 28th
Ward Democrat member for 20 years.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
contributions of Shirley Polk by awarding the
Neighborhood Steward Award in conjunction
with the Skinker DeBaliviere Community
Council Martin Luther King Commemoration
and show our appreciation for her many
contributions to the City of Saint Louis and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree’s family at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 225

Ronie Haliburton
WHEREAS, Ronie was a longtime
resident of 5812 DeGiverville Ave; and

WHEREAS, she passed away on June
25, 2012 at the age of 81 years old; and
WHEREAS, she leaves to cherish her
memory her loving husband Miles; mother
Laura; three of her four children, Sherron,
Brenda , Kelvin; sister Rebecca; three
grandchildren Rina, Danielle, Mia; five great
grandchildren Corey, Quiyamma, Jeremiah,
Gabrielle (Gabbi), and Samia, along with many
other family, friends and her neighborhood
community that she so loved; and
WHEREAS, from the time that she
moved into Skinker DeBaliviere in the 1960s,
Ronie was a very active participant in her
community. She served as a member of the
Skinker-DeBaliviere Community Council
Board of Directors for many years. She was
instrumental in the placement of the
neighborhood Statue at the intersections of
Waterman Blvd. /DeGiverville Ave. /Laurel
Streets; and
WHEREAS, Ronie was also a garden
leader for Skinker DeBaliviere Community
Garden 1035. She ensured that things that
needed to be done for the garden were done
well and in order; and
WHEREAS, She was a member of Block
Unit #1035 and she served in the past as the
block’s Assistant Secretary. Ronie always
worked to keep her neighbors informed and
involved. She regularly attended the 28th Ward
and 7th district Public Affairs meetings and
activities and she always participated in the
annual Skinker DeBaliviere MLK
Commemoration; and
WHEREAS, Ronie was very actively
involved with the Washington Heights
Neighborhood Association. Everyone in the
neighborhood knew and loved Ronie (Mrs.
Haliburton), if they had a question; she was
the one to go to and she was always willing to
lend a helping hand; and
WHEREAS, Ronie was also involved
with the Susan Komen Foundation and was a
volunteer with the Reach for Recovery Cancer
Support Group at Barnes Jewish Hospital.
She loved her church, Galilee Baptist Church;
during her steadfast membership she was a
youth counselor, Sunday School Teacher for
the Junior/Young Adult Class, Captain for the
Group 2 Ushers, Captain Group 4 Baptist
Training Union, starting as the Assistant
Director moving up to Director until her
retirement; and
WHEREAS, along with her many civic
involvements, she was a loving and devoted
caregiver to her mother, father and mother-inlaw. Ronie will be missed by all, she touched
the lives of anyone who knew her, from all

walks of life, young and old and she was truly
a Woman of God.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
contributions of Ronie Haliburton by
awarding the Neighborhood Steward Award
in conjunction with the Skinker DeBaliviere
Community Council Martin Luther King
Commemoration and show our appreciation
for her many contributions to the City of Saint
Louis and we further direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree’s
family at a time and place deemed appropriate
by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 226

David G.F. Schmidt
WHEREAS, David G. F. Schmidt was
born December 1, 1941 in St. Louis, MO to
parents Milton and Lilyan Schmidt; and

WHEREAS, David was married to the
late Barbara Quinn Schmidt. To their union,
two children were born, Karl and Roell
Schmidt; and

WHEREAS, David was a historian,
community organizer, City of St. Louis tax
collector, and a boy scout/girl scout leader;
and

WHEREAS, David was a St. Louis city
dweller born and bred. He lived in the 6100
block of McPherson in Skinker DeBaliviere
neighborhood for several decades; and

WHEREAS, David was a loyal Skinker
DeBaliviere resident and an active volunteer
for many years. He served on the Skinker
DeBaliviere Community Council in the 1970s
and was a longtime officer of Rosedale
Neighbors Association.

WHEREAS, David organized an annual
Christmas Caroling party for many years on
the 6000 and 6100 blocks of McPherson and
found younger residents to continue the
tradition; and

WHEREAS, David was a dyed-in-thewool Democrat, a progressive Catholic, and a
Cardinal fans in all weathers; and

WHEREAS, David Schmidt was
compassionate about the plight of the underprivileged, particularly those impacted by
natural and man-made disasters and he prayed

daily for peace.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
contributions of David G.F. Schmidt by
awarding the Neighborhood Steward Award
in conjunction with the Skinker DeBaliviere
Community Council Martin Luther King
Commemoration and show our appreciation
for his many contributions to the City of Saint
Louis and we further direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree’s
family at a time and place deemed appropriate
by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 227
Lois Daniel Ingrum “The Doll Project”
WHEREAS, Lois Daniel Ingrum is
President /CEO of L. D. Ingrum Studio/
Gallery, she has worked in media arts and
conducted community arts programs since
1983; and

WHEREAS, Lois Daniel Ingrum is a
graduate of the St. Louis Regional Arts
Commission’s CAT (Community Arts
Training) Institute’s TIGER program; and

WHEREAS, she has committed her
talent, heart, creative soul to change lives
through the power of photography and multimedia art; and

WHEREAS, she is a 2012 Visionary
Artist award recipient, she offers her studio/
gallery to community neighbors interested in
art and photography as an informal training
center for at-risk youth; and
WHEREAS, Lois Ingrum began her
documentation of “The Doll Project” in 2008
with her students to create understanding and
learning about the need of public displays for
healing as a reaction to violent deaths; and
WHEREAS, “The Doll Project” is a
traveling multi-media exhibit which pays
artistic tribute to the memory of people who
have died by violence; and
WHEREAS, “The Doll Project” seeks
to develop understanding for open dialogue
that gives value to all live, regardless of status;
and
WHEREAS, “The Doll Project” will be
on exhibit at the Missouri History Museum
January 19, 2013 thru June 23, 2013.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and praise the
tremendous contributions that Lois Daniel
Ingrum has made to our community. We further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 18th of January, 2013 by:
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 228
Pastor Ruth C. Booker
WHEREAS, Pastor Ruth C. Booker is
celebrating her 50th birthday Saturday,
January 19th; and
WHEREAS, Ruth C. Booker is the 13th
child of proud parents Theodore Roosevelt
and Lula Mae Lucas; and
WHEREAS, a St. Louis native, she
graduated in 1982 from O’Fallon Technical
and received her CNA (Certified Nurse
Assistant) in 1984 which is a field she worked
in for 10 years; and
WHEREAS, always striving to enhance
her education, in 1998 Ruth received an
Associate Degree in Human Services from
Forest Park Community College; and
WHEREAS, in 1999 she received her
Preacher’s License under the dynamic
leadership of Reverend Dr. Sammie E. Jones;
and
WHEREAS, in 2005 she was ordained
as Pastor of Christ Our Redeemer Christian
Fellowship M. B. Church under Pastor
Robert Dean in Charleston, Missouri; and
WHEREAS, Pastor Ruth Booker is
now serving as an Associate Minister at the
Leonard M.B. Church under the leadership of
Bishop Steven G. Thompson; and
WHEREAS, Pastor Booker’s favorite
scripture is: Psalms 34:1 and her favorite
saying is, “Remember only what you can do
for Christ will last”; and
WHEREAS, she is married to Parrish
D. Phillips Sr., mother of Shaun Christopher
Booker Sr. & stepmother of stepson Parrish
D Phillips Jr, grandmother of Shaun
Christopher Booker Jr., and step grandmother
of grandchildren Paul and Faith.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our

deliberations to wish Happy Birthday to
Pastor Ruth C. Booker. We further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:

Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 229

Charles (Charlie) Waalkes
WHEREAS, Charles (Charlie) Waalkes
is retiring after a long and distinguished career
in the financial services industry; and

WHEREAS, Charlie is retiring as Senior
Vice President of Operations from Anheuser
Busch Employees Credit Union (ABECU);
and

WHEREAS, prior to joining Anheuser
Busch Credit Union he was the President of
St. Louis Telephone Employees /Meridian
Credit Union; and

WHEREAS, he worked in the banking
business until 1986 when he “saw the light”
and began his “credit union” career; and

WHEREAS, Charlie has served as the
primary legislative advocate for ABECU on
the local, state and national level; and

WHEREAS, one of Charlie’s proudest
moments occurred in 2010 during a golfing
outing when he shot a hole in one in front of
his boss, Dave Osborn; and

WHEREAS, throughout his career
Charlie has had the love and support of his
spouse Randa, his daughter Tracy and sons
Todd and Kent.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and praise the
tremendous contributions Charlie Waalkes has
made to his credit union family, the financial
services industry as a whole, numerous elected
officials and to our community. We further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:
Honorable Kenneth Ortmann,Alderman 9thWard

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 224 through 229
stood considered.

President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 224 through 229 are adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS

Mr. Bosley introduced Resolution No.
223 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 223

WHEREAS, the Missouri State Historic
Rehabilitation Tax Credit has produced 43,000
jobs for Missourians since its creation in 1997,
many thousands of which have been in the
City of St. Louis; and

WHEREAS, the tax credit program
provides valuable financial incentives for the
rehabilitation and redevelopment of thousands
of buildings within the City limits; and

WHEREAS, many National Register
Historic Districts and Certified Local Historic
Districts have been created within the City in
part because of the economic benefits they
derive from the existence of the State Historic
Rehabilitation Tax Credit Program; and

WHEREAS, the State Historic
Rehabilitation Tax Credit Program in the 15
years since its creation has leveraged and
incentivized hundreds of millions of dollars in
private investment for the repair,
rehabilitation, and repurposing historic
buildings in the City of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, this investment has had
positive direct and indirect economic and social
impacts on many City neighborhoods while
improving the tax base of both the City and
the State; and
WHEREAS, the Missouri State Historic
Tax Credit Program, if left unchanged from its
current (2012) form and funding level will
continue to create jobs, generate net revenue,
and improve the quality of life for residents
of the City of St. Louis for years to come.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we are in support of
the continuation of the Missouri State
Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit Program at
current (2012) funding levels and in its current
(2012) form until such a time as it ceases to
provide the benefits enumerated above.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that we
regard the Missouri State Historic Tax Credit

Program to be a beneficial economic
development program that creates meaningful
incentives for investment in distressed
communities while being a net creator of jobs
and tax revenue for the State of Missouri as a
whole and for the communities such as the
City of St. Louis, in which it is implemented.
Introduced on the 18th day of January, 2013
by:
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
Mr. Bosley moved that Resolution No.
223 be referred to the Committee on Housing,
Urban Development and Zoning.
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.
211 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 211
RESOLUTION NUMBER 211
TO COMMISSION A DISPARITY STUDY
FOR THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS
WHEREAS, it is the goal of the City of
St. Louis to increase and/or maintain the
current levels of minority- and woman-owned
business participation; and
WHEREAS, an updated disparity study
must be completed in order to establish the
legal validity for maintaining a Minority and
Women Business Enterprise (M/WBE)
program; and
WHEREAS, the purpose of a disparity
study is to confirm that the City of St. Louis
still has a compelling interest under Federal
Law in continuing a M/WBE program; and
WHEREAS, such a study compares the
actual number of minority and woman-owned
business enterprises (M/WBE) that exist in
the Region against the actual number of M/
WBEs being utilized in City funded contracts;
and
WHEREAS, a disparity exists when
there is underutilization of available M/WBEs;
and
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis
currently relies on a Disparity Study that was
commissioned in 1994, supplemented in 1995,
and a report issued in 1996; and
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis is
committed to working in partnership with
labor, business and residents in the
community to create and maintain a skilled
workforce that reflects the diversity of the
population of the City; and

WHEREAS, a disparity study will also
assist in confirming the legal validity for
maintaining a workforce diversity program.

NOW THEREFORE, The Board of
Aldermen hereby calls upon the appropriate
departments of City government to
commission a Disparity Study to establish
the continuing legal validity of its Minority
and Women Business Enterprise Program and
its Workforce Diversity Goals.

Introduced this 11th day of January, 2013,
by:

HonorableAldermanTerry Kennedy
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Honorable Charles Quincy Troupe,Alderman 1st Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward
Honorable Tammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5th Ward
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward
Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard
Honorable Carol J. Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 211 stood
considered.

Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution No.
211 be adopted, at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Mr. Vaccaro moved that Resolution No.
211 be adopted en banc.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Kennedy renewed his motion.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Ortmann and Mr. Roddy.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return January 25, 2013.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - January 22, 2013
Board met at 1:45 P.M.

Present: Directors Waelterman, Bess,
Siedhoff, Deeken and President Bradley.

Absent: Directors: Skouby and RiceWalker (excused)

Request of the Director of Public
Utilities and Health and Hospitals to be
excused from the Regular Meeting of January
22, 2012 was read and leaves of absence
granted.

Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
January 15, were unanimously approved.

Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Recommendation that the following
ordered approved as follows:

Supplemental Agreement No. 5 to PSA
No. 1071 - Architectural and Engineering
documenting Services at Various St. Louis
Metropolitan Police Department Facilities.

12th Amendment to the PSA No. 31025
- Land Acquisition Services, Lambert St. Louis
International Airport®.
Emergency work for repairs to Forest

Park Pedestrian Bridge over Metro

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Recommendation that direct emergency
action to inspect the condition of the Chain of
Rocks clear well structure and provide a report
of the findings ordered approved.
Recommendation that direct emergency
action to replace the power cables to Chain of
Rocks distributive pump No. 3 ordered
approved.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS
9 permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions: 118976, American Cable
Products, LLC to start at existing manhole
located at 1250Convention Plaza bore south
down alley behind Globe Building to 1101
Lucas place two 1.25" inner duct with a 48
strand fiber inside, a 3x4x3 handhole will be
placed at 1101 Lucas total ROW footage is
300', 119016, AT and T to start at the front of
6760 Southwest on the south side of
Southwest heading west for 40' then boring
under Southwest heading north on the east
side of Abbott for 607' to the 2nd entrance of
2500 Abbott at this point fiber will go on to
private property, 119011, Charter
Communications to bore 2" conduit for coax
at the north side of 1329 Macklind going east
stopping just west of the sidewalk on the side
of Makclind turning south toward Manchester
crossing alley between 1329 Macklind and
1333 Macklind end boring at 1333 Macklind,
119017, Charter Communications to start at
northeast corner of parking lot along south
side of Holly Hills and South Broadway going
to the south side of Southern Metal Processing
Office located at 6400 South Broadway in the
City of St. Louis, 119019, Charter
Communications to start in the alley at 4530
West Pine bore east down the alley from pole
to pole ending at 4520 West Pine also in this
bore location we would like to cross the alley
to feed 4525 Laclede we will be putting a ped
behind 4520 to make all our transitions,
119044, St. Louis University beginning at 2000
Chestnut travel south along the west curb line
of 20th St. approximately 175' to PI west at
2000 Market then along the north curb of
Market St. approximately 345' west to edge
of MoDot ROW, 119038, Southwestern Bell
d/b/a AT and T to start at a manhole in the
sidewalk in front of 920 So. Taylor bore and
place one copper cable going south 2' off edge
of the pavement in the street on So. Taylor
for 282' turning east along Chouteau 2' off
edge of the pavement in the street for 202',
119018, Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company d/b/a AT and T Missouri to dig a
4’x6' pit over an existing duct run that runs
north and south down Claymorgan alley from

an existing manhole located on Morgan St.
from this pit we will break out of the existing
duct run and hand dig east entering the
basement of the building and 119012,
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
d/b/a AT and T Missouri to start at an AT and
T manhole at the front of 3606 Gravois and
bore and place 2-2" PVC with a fiber cable
inside going south along So. Grand turning
east going across So. Grand going onto the
sidewalk at the front of 3600 So. Grand.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

Application No. 119085, Proctor and
Gamble Manufacturing Company, additional
use of easement between their property at
169 East Grand and City property to place
temporary perimeter fencing around a
construction area during the project time of
January, 2013 through September 1, 2013
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

1 filed: Application No. 119014,
Southwestern Bell Telephone d/b/a AT and T
Missouri to bore and place 2-2" PVC with
fiber cable starting at 3606 Gravois and ending
at 3616 South Grand/front of 3530 Miami
duplicate application.

Agenda Items for January 22, 2013
ordered approved.
The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
January 29, 2013.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Theresa Alvey
Secretary pro tem

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE
IMPROVEMENTS TO RIVER DES
PERES OVER CHIPPEWA
PROJECT NO. TCSP-5555(608)
Notice to Contractors

SEALED BIDS for the Public Work
hereinafter mentioned by the Board of Public
Service, will be received at: City Hall, 1200
Market Street, Room 208 until 1:45 P.M.
(Prevailing Local Time) on the 26th day of
February, 2013 and at that time will be
publicly opened and read.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.

Drawings and Specifications may be
examined on the Board of Public Service

website http://www.stl-bps.org/planroom.
aspx (BPS On-Line Plan Room) and may be
purchased directly through the BPS website
from INDOX Services at cost plus shipping,
if applicable.
Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.
A pre-bid conference will be held at
10:00 A.M. on the 11th day of February 2013,
at in City Hall, Room 208. All bidders are
encouraged to attend the pre-bid meeting.
All labor used in the construction of this
public improvement shall be paid a wage no
less than the prevailing hourly rate of wages
of work of a similar character in this locality
as established by the Department of Labor
and Industrial Relations (Federal Wage Rate),
or state wage rate, whichever is higher.
The Board of Public Servicehereby
notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively
ensure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, businesses
owned and controlled by socially and
economically disadvantaged individuals will
be afforded full opportunity to submit bids in
response to this invitation and will not be
discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color, religion, creed, sex, age, ancestry, or
national origin in consideration for an award.”
All bidders must be on MoDOT’s
Qualified Contractor List per Section 102.2
of the Missouri Standard Specifications for
Highway Construction, 2011 Edition including
all revisions. The contractor questionnaire
must be on file 7 days prior to bid opening.
Contractors and sub-contractors who
sign a contract to work on public works project
provide a 10-Hour OSHA construction safety
program, or similar program approved by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations,
to be completed by their on-site employees
within sixty (60) days of beginning work on
the construction project.
A certified or cashier’s check or a bid
bond in the amount of 5% of the total base
bid amount or $9,936.00, whichever is greater,
shall be submitted with each proposal.
The Board of Public Service reserves the
right to reject any or all bids.
The DBE Goal for this project is 5%.
No 2nd tier subcontracting will be allowed
on this project.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
January 15, 2013.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.

President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
February 26, 2013, St. Louis, Missouri time,
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
LETTING NO. 8519
JOB TITLE: Lambert-St. Louis International Airport ® Residential Sound
Insulation Program
DEPOSIT: $18,200.00
Drawings and Specifications may be
examined on the Board of Public Service
w e b s i t e h t t p : / / w w w. s t l - b p s . o r g /
planroom.aspx (BPS On Line Plan Room) and
may be purchased directly though the BPS
website from INDOX Services at cost plus
shipping if required. Purchased sets become
the property of the prospective bidder and
no refunds will be made.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Bid Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.

The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all
bidders that it will affirmatively insure that in
any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises

will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color or national origin in consideration for an
award. The DBE goal for this project is 17%.

The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.

All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.

All bidders must regard Federal
Executive Order 111246, “Notice of
Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure
Equal Employment Opportunity”, the “Equal
Opportunity Clause” and the “Standard
Federal Equal Employment Specifications” set
for within and referenced at www.stl-bps.org
(Announcements).

The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.

By Order of the Board of Public Service,
January 15, 2013.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for Construction Supervision and Material
Testing for the Reconstruction of Taxiway
Delta from Runway 6/24 to Taxiway
Romeo; the Reconstruction of Taxiway
Echo from Taxiway Papa to Taxiway Lima;
and, the Removal of Taxiway November

between Runway 12L-30R and Taxiway
Echo at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport. Statements of Qualifications due by
5:00 P.M., CT, February 8, 2013 at Board of
Public Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City
Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be
obtained from website www.stl-bps.org,
under On Line Plan Room, or call Bette Behan
at 314-589-6214. 23% DBE participation
goal.

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for OPEN-ENDED MECHANICAL,
ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING DESIGN
SERVICES, LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®. Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00 PM
CT, February 15, 2013 at Board of Public
Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City Hall,
St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be obtained
from website www.stl-bps.org under On Line
Plan Room, or call Bette Behan at 314-5896214. 25% MBE and 5% WBE participation
goals for this project.

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 6, 2013 in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #10126 – Appeal filed by
Alvin’s Wholesale LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an office
space for a wholesale dealership in suite #1A
at 8733 Riverview Blvd. WARD 2
#AO503351-12 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10127 – Appeal filed by
Right Choice Auto Sales & Repairs II, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate
and expand an existing auto sales and repair
business with outside storage from 8833 N.
Broadway to 8827-33 N. Broadway.
WARD 2 #AO503259-12 ZONE: “B” –
Two Family Dwelling District “F” –
Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #10128 – Appeal filed by
Mobile Automotive Sales, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a pre
owned auto sales business within an existing

business in suite B at 5118-20 Dr. Martin
Luther King. WARD 26 #AO503256-12
ZONE: “G” – Local Commercial & Office
District
APPEAL #10129 – Appeal filed by
Zach Smith, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
incidental business occupation waiver
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
car sales business at 3427 Locust. WARD 19
Incidental Business Occupation Waiver
ZONE: “H” – Area Commercial
District
APPEAL #9928 – Appeal filed by
Salam’s Tire & Auto Service, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the revocation of a use variance and
occupancy permit, with conditions,
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
auto sales, auto repair (no body work) and
tire repair and sales business at 2616 N.
Florissant. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 5
#AO495246-11 ZONE: “G” – Local
Commercial & Office District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
Revised 1-23-13
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 13, 2013 in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL #10130 – Appeal filed by
Joann Berger, President of Hi-Point
Homeowner’s Association from the
determination of the Board of Public Service
to grant a home occupancy waiver authorizing
John Donati D/B/A Sporting Solutions to
occupy 1324 McCausland as an internet
consultation and manufacturing sporting goods
business (office use only). WARD 24
#Home Occupancy Waiver ZONE : “A” –
Single Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #10131 – Appeal filed by
Rosene Service Company, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to have outside
storage for construction equipment, pallets,
bricks, trucks, cars, trailers, at 2600-14
University. WARD 3 #AO503262-12
ZONE: “C” – Multiple Family Dwelling
District “G” – Local and Commercial

Business District

APPEAL #9094 – Appeal filed by L & J
Wrecking (I), from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the revocation of a
use variance and occupancy permit, with
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to
operate an outside storage of demolition
equipment business at 2601 University.
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 3
#AO428791-08 ZONE: “G” - Local
Commercial and Office District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 7, 2013 on the following
conditional uses:

5331 Sutherland - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Zuki Core Buyer (Scrap Metal/Office
Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling
District. Db Ward 14

6907 W. Park Ave.- Home Occupancy
Waiver-Chris O’Brien Pools and Contracting
(Swimming Pool Service/Contracting/Office
Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Db Ward 24

5914 Morganford - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Egypt Ancient Grains (Doggie
Cookies/Office Use Only) “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 13

2310 Farrar St. - #AO-503563-13Queens and Kings Learning Center (Daycare/
20 Children/4 Infants/16 2 ½ to 12 yrs./6a to
12 midm./Mon. to Fri./Change of Ownership)
“C” Multiple Family Dwelling District. Te
Ward 3

6459 Chippewa - #AO-503538-13Jimmy John’s (Sitdown/Carryout/Drive thru/
Front Patio/Sun.-Tue. 10am to 2am/Wed.-Sat.
10am to 4am) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Bl Ward 23

2900 Prairie - #AO-503331-12-K-Life
Ministry Center (Community Center w/
Cooking) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 3

4506-12 Hampton - #AO-503493-13Jewels on Hampton (Retail/Resale/Jewelry/
Coins/Artifacts/Watches/Jewelry Repair)
“F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Te
Ward 16

3340 Morganford - #AB-503540-13Remains, Inc. (Construct Warehouse per plans)
“K” Unrestricted District. Bl Ward 15
6120 Delmar - #AB-503370-12-Rainieri
Construction (Interior Alterations per plans
for Restaurant) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 28
1631 S. Jefferson - #AB-503630-13Save A Lot (Interior Alterations Tenant Finish
per plans for Grocery Store) “G” Local
Commercial and Office District. Bl Ward 6

1500 N. Grand - #AB-503514-13-Dollar
General (Construct Commercial Building per
plans for Retail Sales) “H”- Area Commercial
District. Bl Ward 4

3513 Cass - #AB-503636-13-Dollar
General (Construct Parking Lot per plans for
parking lot) “G” Local Commercial and Office
District. Bl Ward 4

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 14, 2013 on the
following conditional uses:
1627 Locust - Home Occupancy WaiverSt. Louis Cart Tours, LLC (Tour Guide/
Motorized Cart/Office Use Only) “I” Central
Business District. Te Ward 5
5740 Greer - Home Occupancy WaiverQuality Home HealthCare Service, LLC
(Home Health Provider/Office Use Only) “C”
Multiple Family Dwelling District. Te Ward
22
2901-07 Shenandoah - #AO-50365613-Washateria (Laundromat/22% Beer/Wine/
Outdoor Front Patio) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 7
5850 Hampton - #AO-503664-13-X
Change (Retail/Resale Sales/New/Used
Clothing) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 12

3127 Cherokee - #AO-503459-12Kevin’s nails & Tattoo Shop (Tattoo Shop/
Nail Salon/1st fl) “G” Local Commercial and
Office District. Te Ward 9

5801 Gravois - #AO-503513-13-Tool
Rental & More (Tool Rental & Retail/New
and Used) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 13

3325 Cherokee - #AO-503329-12Wabi Shabele Market (Convenience Store/ No
Cooking/ No Liquor) “G” Local Commercial
and Office District. Te Ward 9
5415 Virginia - #AO-503318-12-

Platinum Plus Recording Studio &
Entertainment) (Retail Sales/Recording Studio/
Ste. D) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 25

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Mercer on behalf of the City of St. Louis
is soliciting proposals from qualified
organizations to provide dental coverage for
City of St. Louis employees and dependents.
A Request for Proposal may be secured by
contacting Cheryl McGauly, at 314-588-2545
or via email at Cheryl.mcgauly@mercer.com.
The Deadline for receiving sealed proposals
is 5:00 p.m., February 1, 2013.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Mercer on behalf of the City of St. Louis
is soliciting proposals from qualified
organizations to provide fully insurance
medical coverage for City of St. Louis
employees, dependents and retirees. A
Request for Proposal may be secured by
contacting Cheryl McGauly, at 314-588-2545
or via email at Cheryl.mcgauly@mercer.com.
The Deadline for receiving sealed proposals
is 4:00 p.m., February 7, 2013.

INVITATIONTO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
720-13-0047 – Prostate Screenings
670-001479 –
Portable Remote Firing Cart
670-001477– Leica Model FS M
Comparison Microscope
Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, February 15, 2013 when
they will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must be
submitted may be obtained from the Office of
the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,

rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.
Email must include vendor’s company
name, address, and description of bid.
Purchasing Division
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP –441-00282
BUILDING INSURANCE

Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, February 15, 2013, when
they will be opened publicly and announced.

Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of the Director of
Purchasing by prospective bidders upon
request in person or by telephone during
regular business hours.

Contractor shall not discriminate in matters
of employment, upgrading, transfer, rates of
pay selection or otherwise, against any
employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.

A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
CAROL SHEPARD
DIRECTOR OF PROCUREMENT
AND RECORDS RETENTION
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS
Consulting Services for
Station Area Planning
St. Louis Development Corporation
seeks a Consultant to complete Station Area
Plans at three existing and two planned
MetroLink Stations within the City of St.
Louis. Proposals due February 11, 2013.
Details at www.stlouis-mo.gov/sldc/
procurement.cfm or call Amy Lampe, 314657-3737.

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS
The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is FEBRUARY 15,
2013.

AUDIT SUPERVISOR
Prom./O.C. 1947
$54,860 to $83,382 (Annual Salary Range)
Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,

Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at http://
stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
January 23, 2013

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional

penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
JANUARY 29, 2013 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2013
RAPISCAN METOR 6M-30 WALK
THRU METAL DETECTOR
for JUVENILE DIVISION per REQ. #29.
(BF)

HON METRO CLASSIC SERIES
DOUBLE PEDESTAL DESKS
for AIRPORT AUTHORITY per REQ. #253.
(LC)

CONCRETE ACCELERANT, C-SET,
55 GALLON DRUM
for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1249.
(BF)

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2013

GRAPHTEC 64" PLOTTER W/
MEDIA BASKET PART #FC8000-160
for AIRPORT AUTHORITY per REQ. #244.
(LC)

2013 CHEVROLET IMPALA
POLICE SEDAN
for AIRPORT AUTHORITY per REQ. #256.
(LC)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will

offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to:
http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm
then, search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

