The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2014-2015
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Monday, April 20, 2015.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

IMPORTANT
NOTICE TO
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscriptions to the City Journal
expires with March 17, 2015
issue. If you wish to renew your
subscription for the ensuing year,
please remit $30.00 to the
Register's Office, Room 118, City
Hall, St. Louis, Missouri 63103, in
order to avoid a lapse in your
subscription.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers April 20, 2015.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Tyus,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Ingrassia,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz,
Murphy, Howard, Green, Baringer, Roddy,
Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd,
Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Carter, Williamson,
Krewson and President Reed. 28

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
None.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
None.

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Kennedy moved for third reading
and final passage of Board Bill No. 219.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Tyus, Flowers, Bosley, Moore,
Hubbard, Ingrassia, Conway, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Murphy, Green,

Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid,
French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 26
Noes: 0
Present: Howard. 1

Board Bill No. 219
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis to execute a Quit Claim Deed to
JARUBA CORP. for certain City-owned
property located in City Block 5114, which
property is known as 4213 Gibson Avenue,
upon receipt of and in consideration of the
sum of Three Hundred Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($375,000.00), and
containing an emergency clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, April 20, 2015.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen
The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and it is truly engrossed.
Mr. French moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bill No. 208
(Committee Substitute).
Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.
Ms. Howard moved to table Board Bill
No. 208 (Committee Substitute).
Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.
Failed by the following vote:
Ayes: Tyus, Moore, Ingrassia, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Murphy, Howard,
Baringer and Vaccaro, 11
Noes: Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard,
Conway, Green, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis,
Schmid, French, Boyd, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 17
Present: 0
Mr. French renewed his motion for third
reading and final passage of Board Bill No.
208 (Committee Substitute).
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Moore,
Hubbard, Conway, Green, Roddy, Kennedy,

Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 17
Noes: Tyus, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Arnowitz, Murphy, Baringer and Vaccaro. 8
Present: Ingrassia and Ogilvie. 2
Under Rule 47 Ms. Ingrassia states:

It was my intention to vote yes on Board
Bill 208 (Committee Substitute) today because
I agree that Civilian Review of the Police
Department is needed. I was prepared to vote
yes despite the fact it is not a perfect bill and
I was not one hundred percent supportive of
the process by which the final bill came out of
Committee. Over the past week, including
up until this very moment, I have been
subjected to intimidating and ignorant
behavior based on misinformation and out right
lies. This occurred on social media, in person,
at work and at my home.

I will not vote yes on the bill and allow
bullies to take credit for my vote today. If
you want my support, you will gain it only
via rational, logical and respectful
conversation.

Board Bill No. 208
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance establishing an Civilian
Oversight Board in the City of St. Louis;
establishing the St. Louis Civilian Oversight
Board, containing definitions, delineating the
St. Louis Civilian Oversight Board’s
composition, powers and duties, the
administrative structure, inspection and
investigation procedures, cooperation of the
Police Department, confidentiality and
containing a severability clause.
Alderman Boyd
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE

Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, April 20, 2015.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen

The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 208
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance establishing an Civilian
Oversight Board in the City of St. Louis;
establishing the St. Louis Civilian Oversight

Board, containing definitions, delineating the
St. Louis Civilian Oversight Board’s
composition, powers and duties, the
administrative structure, inspection and
investigation procedures, cooperation of the
Police Department, confidentiality and
containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 219
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis to execute a Quit Claim Deed to
JARUBA CORP. for certain City-owned
property located in City Block 5114, which
property is known as 4213 Gibson Avenue,
upon receipt of and in consideration of the
sum of Three Hundred Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($375,000.00), and
containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Boyd
Chairman of the Committee
Board Bills Numbered 219 and 208
(Committee Substitute) were read and all other
business being suspended, Mr. Reed, in the
presence of the Board and in open session,
affixed his signature in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 273 through 276 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 273
Johnnie J. Glenn, Sr.
WHEREAS, we pause to express our
sadness and offer condolences to the family
and friends of Johnnie J. Glenn, Sr. on the
occasion of his death on April 9, 2015 and to
celebrate his home-going celebration; and

WHEREAS, Johnnie Glenn Sr. was born
on September 20th, 1916 in Columbus,
Mississippi to James and Alma, he was the
third eldest of ten siblings; and
WHEREAS, Johnnie married Evelyn
Harris, the love of his life, a union that lasted
55 years (until her transition in 1998), and
from that union came eight children: Joseph
and Johnny J. who preceded him in death,
Johnnie J. Jr., Donald, Alice, Deborah, David,
and Ida; and
WHEREAS, he was a loving and caring
father who provided for his family by serving
honorably in the U. S. Army Air Corps during
World War II and by working for the U. S.
Army Medical Depot and the Veterans
Administration for more than 30 years before
retiring; and

WHEREAS, Johnnie continued to
demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit
throughout his life both as a Barbeque
restaurateur and as a champion for the
environment by recycling all matter of things;
and
WHEREAS, Mr. Johnnie J. Glenn, Sr.
served God faithfully throughout his life, both
as a member and officer of The New Bethlehem
Baptist Church, Bostick Temple COGIC,
Union Memorial COGIC, Walnut Park
COGIC, and in his final years, Whole Life
Ministries; and
WHEREAS, Johnnie Glenn, Sr. is the
embodiment of a God filled man who loved
unconditionally, set high standards, and set a
standard for others to emulate; his 98 year life
leaves a legacy of unconditional love, patience,
compassion and commitment to his family
and friends.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and acknowledge
the beautiful life and accomplishments of
Johnnie J. Glenn, Sr. We further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a memorial copy
for presentation to the family of Johnnie
Glenn, Sr. at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 17th day of April 2015 by:
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President, BoardofAldermen

Resolution No. 274
St. Louis Skills On Wheels
WHEREAS, we are delighted to pause
in our deliberations to recognize St. Louis
Skills On Roller Skating Group on the occasion
of their 20th Annual Super Skating
Extravaganza; and

WHEREAS, the St. Louis Skills On
Wheels Organization was founded in
November 1994, by Donna Hudson, Lillie
McMurray, Tina Brown, Jake Goss, Alvin
Cubb, Carolyn Spencer, Richard revels, Henry
Perkins, Paulette Crowley, Joe Goss, Rodney
Davis, Theresa Foster, Earl Williams, Cynthia
Walton, Jesse Wade, and Joann Lyles. They
hosted their first national skating event at
Saints Roller Rink in 1996; and
WHEREAS, the Club has been inducted
into the Adrenalin Awards Royal Court as
pioneers in the “Style Skate” community for
their work; as the second oldest National
African-American roller skating group with
the oldest rolling skating event in the United

States; and

WHEREAS, we also pause to recognize
President Donna Hudson, as well as current
members for twenty years of relentless
“servant leadership” and unwavering vision
to the international, national, regional, and local
St. Louis area roller skating community; and

WHEREAS, St. Louis Skills On Wheels
are recognized as “bridge-builders” to the next
skating generation by assisting individuals,
coaching, and empowering them to start their
own skate club and skating events, not just
locally, but nationally; and

WHEREAS, we recognize St. Louis
Skills On Wheels as “trailblazers” by
providing a national platform while
maintaining a standard of excellence for skaters
to develop and witness artistry on wheels;
and

WHEREAS, we proudly honor “The
Original Members” and all past and current
members for serving this organization with
commitment, integrity, and duty.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to extend our sincere
congratulations, best wishes to St. Louis Skills
On Wheels and continued success for many,
many years to come. We further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may presented to our
honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate
by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of April, 2015 by:

Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen

Resolution No. 275

Thomas Lee Cunningham
WHEREAS, Thomas Lee Cunningham
was raised in South St. Louis on Virginia
Avenue and Haven Street. He attended Blow
Elementary School, located at 516
Loughborough Avenue; and

WHEREAS, after graduating from
Cleveland High School, he was drafted into
the Army and served in the Vietnam War with
the 196th Infantry and was assigned to Delta
Company. His parents also served in the
military. His mother was an Army Nurse and
his father served in WWII.

WHEREAS, he was awarded three
Bronze Stars and a Presidential Citation for
his meritorious service; and

WHEREAS, Tom now suffers from
Degenerative Bone Disease and has had several
heart attacks. He has been through significant
difficulties in living with this horrendous
disease, including losing his home. So, it is no
surprise that there will be a fundraiser held in
his honor to assist Tom with some of life’s
challenges.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Thomas Lee
Cunningham and we direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 17th day of April, 2015 by:
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard

Resolution No. 276
Honorable Alderman Craig Schmid
WHEREAS, on April 18, 1995, Craig
Schmid, a longtime resident of the Marine Villa
neighborhood, was sworn in as Alderman of
the 10th Ward; and

WHEREAS, Craig Schmid attended Mt.
Pleasant Elementary School and Cleveland
High School before going on to St. Louis
University where he graduated with a BA
(magna cum laude) and a JD (cum laude) from
St. Louis University School of Law. Craig has
a life-long commitment to education; never
missing or declining an invitation to speak to
youth groups, students, and foreign
ambassadors who visit city hall; and

WHEREAS, the city considers the office
of alderman a part-time position, Craig Schmid
spent over 50 hours a week just taking care of
the routine business of the ward; in addition
to his long office hours, Craig attended
countless neighborhood meetings, wrote
letters to slum landlords, allocated block grant
funds, and drafted legislation; and

WHEREAS, Craig Schmid has served
as alderman of the 20th ward since 2003; prior
to that he served as alderman of the 10th ward
from 1995-2003 and when the 10th ward was
moved after redistricting, he was as dedicated
to his new constituents as he was to the
residents in his ward. He answered calls,
worked with the NSOs, neighborhood
organizations, and attended meetings in both
wards for over a year before being re-elected
as the 20th Ward alderman; and
WHEREAS, as a public servant, Craig

has been actively involved in obtaining city
services for constituents, improving housing,
economic and human development,
educational opportunities, crime and public
safety issues, and seeking enforcement of
quality of life violations; and
WHEREAS, Alderman Schmid has been
an active member of many neighborhood
organizations and boards including the Gravois
Park Neighborhood Accountability Board
(restorative justice program with the Juvenile
Court), Commissioner & Vice-Chair of the
Civil Rights Enforcement Agency, St. Louis
Family & Community Partnership,
Neighborhood Leadership Team Member of
the Sustainable Neighborhood-South City
Cluster, P.A.C.E. (Program of All-Inclusive
Care for the Elderly, Consumer Advisory
Committee, Marine Villa Neighborhood
Association, St. Louis Christmas Carols
Association, Roosevelt High School
Community Advisory Committee-and that
just names a few; and
WHEREAS, most recently Craig served
on the Legislation Committee (Chairman),
Health & Human Services, Housing & Urban
Development, and Intergovernmental Affairs
(Vice-Chair), but it was never uncommon to
see him in a Ways & Means, Neighborhood
Development, Public Safety, Public Utilities,
or Streets committee testifying on a bill that
he was passionate about; and
WHEREAS, Craig is a favorite of the
staff and employees at city hall due to the
countless hours he spent in the office; Craig
always participated in the annual City
Employee Appreciation BBQ, not only
donating funds, but serving employees with
sincerity and appreciation, he entertained us
at Christmas parties when he played his
trumpet, he joined the lunch room gang
regularly to work and chat while he ate, and
Craig always enjoyed giving thoughtful, St.
Louis style gifts to the entire staff at Christmas
and for employee appreciation; he will be truly
missed; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen, the
staff, and Craig’s many, many friends at city
hall wish him, his wife Cindy, and daughters
Emily and Sarah, nothing but the best in their
future.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to express our sincere
appreciation to Alderman Craig Schmid for
his many contributions to this Board, the
residents of the 10th and 20th wards, and the
City of St. Louis as a whole and we further

wish him success in all his future endeavors,
and we direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
presented to our honoree at a time and place
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of April, 2015 by:

HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable SharonTyus,Alderwoman 1st Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2ndWard
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard
HonorableTammikaHubbard,Alderwoman5thWard
Honorable Christine Ingrassia,Alderwoman 6thWard
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8thWard
HonorableKennethA.Ortmann,Alderman9thWard
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard
Honorable Thomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard
HonorableBethMurphy,Alderwoman13thWard
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14thWard
Honorable Megan E. Green,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21stWard
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24thWard
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25thWard
Honorable FrankWilliamson,Alderman 26thWard
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 273 through 276
stood considered.

President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 273 through 276 be adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.

Mr. Vaccaro moved that Resolution No.
276 be passed en banc.
Seconded by Mr. Moore.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
President Reed renewed his motion.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
None.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Kennedy moved to adjourn under
rules to return April 21, 2015.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2015-2016
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Tuesday, April 21, 2015.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.
City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers April 21, 2015.
The roll was called and the following

Aldermen answered to their names: Tyus,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Ingrassia,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz,
Murphy, Howard, Green, Baringer, Roddy,
Kennedy, Davis, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Krewson and
President Reed. 26
“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
Mr. Roddy moved to appoint David
Sweeney as the Temporary Clerk/Legal
Counsel of the Board and Donna Evans Booker
as the Temporary Assistant Clerk.
Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Boyd of the Committee on
Engrossment, Rules, Resolutions and
Credentials submitted the following report
which was read.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen and Aldermen:
The Committee on Engrossment, Rules,
Resolutions and Credentials have met and
report that they have considered the
qualifications of the following individuals and
find they are qualified to hold the office of
President and Alderman/Alderwoman.
Lewis E. Reed
Dionne Flowers
Samuel L. Moore
Christine Ingrassia
John J. Coatar
Stephen Conway
Joseph Vollmer
Larry Arnowitz
Beth Murphy

Carol J. Howard
Megan E. Green
Donna Baringer
Terry Kennedy
Cara Spencer
Jeffrey L. Boyd
Scott Ogilvie
Frank A. Williamson
Lyda Krewson

Mr. Boyd moved to adopt the report of
the Committee on Engrossment, Rules,
Resolutions and Credentials.
Seconded by Mr. Roddy.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Aldermen Elect assembled and were
sworn in by Circuit Judge Honorable Jimmie
Edwards.
The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Tyus,
Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Ingrassia, Coatar,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz,
Wessels, Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy,
Kennedy, Davis, Spencer, French, Boyd,
Vaccaro, Ogilvie, and Cohn,

INTRODUCTION OF
SPECIAL GUESTS
None.
Mr. Roddy introduced Resolution No.
1 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 1

WHEREAS, each member of the Board
of Aldermen has previously received a copy
of the Rules of the Board of Aldermen for the
2015-2016 session.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED that the Board of Aldermen
hereby adopts said Rules of the Board of
Aldermen as the Rules of the Board of
Aldermen for the 2015-2016 Session.

Introduced this the 21st day of April, 2015
by:
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 1 stood considered.
Mr. Roddy moved that Resolution No.
1 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Ms. Krewson.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Coatar introduced Resolution No.
2 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 2

WHEREAS, on this the 21st day of
April, 2015 the Board of Aldermen reconvenes
for the initial meeting of the 2015-2016
Session as required by the Charter of the City
of St. Louis; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen is
authorized by Ordinance to hire staff.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED that the following individuals
are appointed for the 2015-2016 Session of
the Board of Aldermen:

David W. Sweeney
Donna Booker
Lisa R. McNichols

Clerk /Legal Counsel
Assistant Clerk
Administrative
Assistant
Sherri Bill
Executive Secretary
Sarah Gleason
Secretary
Tina Johnson
Secretary
Tracy Billups
Secretary
Vacant
Secretary
Michele Knox
Secretary
Teresa Chambers Secretary
Sharon Cunningham Receptionist/Typist
Terrance Morris
Administrative Aide

Introduced this 21st day of April, 2015 by:
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable John J. Coatar,Alderman 7thWard
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 2 stood considered.
Mr. Coatar moved that Resolution No.
2 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Tyus, Flowers, Bosley, Moore,
Hubbard, Ingrassia, Coatar, Ortmann, Vollmer,
Villa, Arnowitz, Murphy, Howard, Green,
Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Spencer,
French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Krewson and President Reed. 27
Noes: 0
Present: 0

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
None.

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Spencer introduced Resolution No.
3 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 3
RESOLVED, that the Clerk of the
Board of Aldermen be authorized and directed
to prepare the index to the Journal of the Board
for the 2015-2016 Session and that the Journal
be prepared in both a bound and printed format
and in an electronic format in numbers to be
determined by the Clerk but in no event to
exceed fifteen (15) copies total.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that, if
within One Hundred Twenty (120) days of
the date of this Resolution, the responsible
parties handling printing contracts for
Aldermanic printing and formatting have not
submitted to the Clerk and the officers of the
Board an executed contract between the City
and a responsible printer for the binding of
the Journals as aforesaid, which said contract
must include any prior years when the journals
were not bound, then in that event the Clerk
of the Board is hereby authorized, with the
approval of the Personnel and Administration
Committee, to solicit bids and enter into a
printing and formatting contract on behalf of
the Board for the completion of the work
called for herein and as provided by Section 8
of Article IV of the Charter of the City of St.
Louis.
Introduced this the 21st day of April, 2015
by:
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable Cara Spencer,Alderwoman 20thWard
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 3 stood considered.

Ms. Spencer moved that Resolution No.
3 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Ms. Murphy.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Ms. Green introduced Resolution No. 4
and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 4

WHEREAS, on this 21st day of April,
2015, the Board of Aldermen reconvenes for
the initial meeting of the 2015-2016 Session
of the Board as required by Charter; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the
members of the Board to continue on an
ongoing basis the service and community
involvement that each individual has in his or
her local neighborhood; and

WHEREAS, as in the past, the Board of
Aldermen as a body has recognized the need
for such participation and has expressed an
awareness of the costs, both in funds and
incidental expenses, of better informing
citizens so that meaningful levels of
participation in policy discussion and decision
making at local neighborhood levels may occur
and of better informing themselves so that a
more aware participation in the discharge of
their duties may exist; and

WHEREAS, in the discharge of
Aldermanic duties it is often necessary that
correspondence and communication occur
between Aldermen and various others through
the United States mail service; and

WHEREAS, Ordinance 61090 approved
November 22, 1988 authorizes the payment
of expense funds. By the adoption of this
Resolution the Board of Aldermen hereby
approved the expense and stamp allowance
for each alderman as stated elsewhere in this
Resolution as an ongoing periodic payment
to each alderman in the amount and manner
herein stated unless changed by future action
of the Board meeting for that purpose;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED that this Board of Aldermen
does hereby authorize a continued payment
to each Alderman and the President of the
Board of Aldermen of an expense allowance
in the amount of three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00) and the issuance of the equivalent
of two hundred (200) United States postage
stamps per month of such denomination
required to mail a standard first-class business
letter as a periodic payment to each Alderman
and directs the Comptroller and the Treasurer
of the City of St. Louis to issue their respective
warrants and drafts to implement the payment
and issuance of said allowances as herein

authorized, until further directed by this Board.
Introduced this the 21st day of April, 2015
by:
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable Megan Green,Alderwoman 15thWard
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 4 stood considered.
Ms. Green moved that Resolution No.
4 be adopted at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Kennedy moved to excuse the
following alderman due to his necessary
absence: Mr. Carter.
Seconded by Mr. Ogilvie.
Carried by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Kennedy moved to adjourn under
rules to return May 1, 2015
Seconded by Ms. Green.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - April 21, 2015

The Board met at 1:45 p.m.
Present: Directors Skouby, Runde,
Hayes, Roth, Moore, Gray and President
Bradley.
Absent: None.
The Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
April 14, 2015 were unanimously approved.
The Minutes of the Special Called
Meeting of April 10, 2015 were unanimously

approved.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT
Proposed contract and bond ordered
approved as follows:
Letting No. 8567 - Concrete and Brick
Removal/Replacement and Complete
Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-96, SBC
Contracting Inc., 6800 Langley Avenue, St.
Louis, MO 63123, Contract No. 19918
Letting No. 8569 - Concrete
Replacement Due to City of St. Louis Water
Division Maintenance and Construction, 2015,
SBC Contracting Inc., 6800 Langley Avenue,
St. Louis, MO 63123, Contract No. 19919
Installation of License Plate Reader
Equipment Agreement between Missouri
Highway and Transportation Commission
City of St. Louis and the Missouri Highways
and Transportation Commission ordered
approved.
The Board declared as an emergency
work Neighborhood Banners and Signs ordered
approved.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS
4 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 121304, AT and
T Missouri, trench and bore to place new
copper cable in R.O.W. of way along alleys
between 2 poles at each pole where the cable
will rise to the air, 121305, AT and T
Missouri, access existing manhole on 23rd St.
at alleyway between Locust and Olive from
this manhole bore to place 1 new fiber optic
cable, fiber will rise pole and continue in the
air, cut and restore alleyway behind 2227
Olive to remove defective anchor etc., 121306,
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
d/b/a AT and T Missouri, start at existing
handhole which is located at 2665 Scott on
north side of Scott to 525 Jefferson where we
will place new handhole and enter private
property, the new handhole will be located
within the sidewalk, 121325, Southwestern
Bell Telephone Company d/b/a AT and T
Missouri, start at side of Forest Park on
Vandeventer at a AT and T manhole and bore
and place one copper cable and one 2"
polypipe east across Vandventer to alley to
customer pipe at rear of 3950 Forest Park.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 121408,

TGNCDC/Rubican Corporation, subdivide
land at 3283 Alfred in C.B. 84A., 121430,
Padda, Benner and Benner Law Firm, lot split
surrounding Farlin, Geraldine, Brown and the
railroad right of way in C.B. 4382S.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

4 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 121410, Shepard
Exposition Services Inc., encroach with 1 four
sided structure on the sidewalk on Tucker b/t
Pine and Olive, 121409, JT Morgan LLC,
encroach with sidewalk café (1 table and 4
chairs) no liquor at 2619 ½ Cherokee, 121412,
Saint Louis University, encroach with 1
crosswalk sign and base at 3721 Laclede west
of Spring and, 121411, Saint Louis University,
encroach with 1 crosswalk sign and base at
Laclede west of Grand.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No. 121441, Cinco de
Mayo-Cherokee, declare a festival zone at
Cherokee between Nebaska and Ohio ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

Application No. 99356, Regal Riverfront
Hotel - St. Louis, operate a hotel at 200 No.
4th St ordered revoked by reason of the fact
that the hotel is closed.

9 Conditional Use Permits with the
condition that all core hours and days be
removed ordered approved as recommended
by the Hearing Officer, per Board Order No.
766.

1 approved:
121432, 1904 Withnell, interior and
exterior alterations (per plans) to convert 2family into single family,

8 approved with conditions:
121433, 4044 Delmar, general
contracting business, property development
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
121434, 6452 Hoffman, handcrafted
soaps, lotions, cosmetics (office use only)
home occupancy wavier,
121435, 4246 Cleveland, roofing and
sales (office use only) home occupancy
wavier,
121436, 1438 Rowan, realty office
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
121437, 3716 Morgan Ford, daycare
(121 children, 3 to 12 years, Monday-Friday,
6 a.m. to 6 p.m., gym and cafeteria, Room
110 and 310,
121438, 4739 McPherson, office and
action house,
121439, 2619 ½ Cherokee, carryout
restaurant with sidewalk seating (no liquor),
121440, 5215 Manchester, dog daycare,
boarding facility with outside play area.

Agenda Items for April 21, 2015 ordered
approved.
The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
April 28, 2015 ordered approved.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Jones
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M., May
12, 2015, St. Louis, Missouri time, at which
time they will be publicly opened and read,
viz:
LETTING NUMBER: 8575
JOB TITLE: 2015 Concrete Roadway Spot
Slab Repairs at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport
BID DEPOSIT: $5,225.00

Drawings and Specifications may be examined
on the Board of Public Service website http:/
/www.stl-bps.org/planroom.aspx (BPS On
Line Plan Room) and may be purchased
directly though the BPS website from
INDOX Services at cost plus shipping if
required. Purchased sets become the property
of the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall. There will be a
Mandatory Pre-bid meeting on April 21, 2015,
at 10:00 AM at 11495 Navaid Rd., Bridgeton,
MO 63044, on the Fourth Floor in the Training
Room.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Bid Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
five percent (5%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.
The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all
bidders that it will affirmatively insure that in
any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises
will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color or national origin in consideration for an
award. The M/WBE goals for this project are
25% and 5%, respectively.
The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.
All bidders must regard Federal
Executive Order 111246, “Notice of
Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure
Equal Employment Opportunity”, the “Equal
Opportunity Clause” and the “Standard
Federal Equal Employment Specifications” set
for within and referenced at www.stl-bps.org
(Announcements).
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
April 7, 2015.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:

Cherise D. Jones
Secretary

AGENDA
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
Regular Meeting
May 6, 2015
1:30 p.m.
Room 208, City Hall
1.

Call to order.

2. A public hearing to consider each of
the following;

APPEAL #10597- Appeal filed by
Comunidad Christiana Vida Abundante, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a
church at 1216 Sidney. WARD 9
#AB520016-15 ZONE: “D” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10598 - Appeal filed by Shell
Bell’s, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to do interior
alterations, per plans, for a full drink bar/
restaurant with an outside patio, (2nd floor
overflow) at 2001 Menard. WARD 7
#AB520674-15 ZONE: “D” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10599 - Appeal filed by Big
Brothers Big Sisters of Eastern MO, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to do interior and exterior
alterations, per plans, for a full drink/sit down
restaurant at 501 N. Grand. WARD 19
#AB520938-15 ZONE: “H” – Area
Commercial District

APPEAL #10600 - Appeal filed by
Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to construct a sit down/carryout restaurant with a drive-thru, per plans,
zoning only, at 4320 Hampton. WARD 16
#AB518845-14 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #10115 – Appeal file by D/B/
A Anything Automotive, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the revocation of a use variance and
occupancy permit, with conditions,
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
auto sales, car wash and auto repair (no body

work or painting) at 5068 Chippewa.
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 14
#AO503099-12 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District
3. Deliberations on the above hearings
4. Approval of Written decisions,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law from
hearings and deliberations held on April 29,
2015.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

AGENDA
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
Regular Meeting
May 13, 2015
1:30 p.m.
Room 208, City Hall
1.

Call to order.

2. A public hearing to consider each of
the following;

APPEAL #10601 – Appeal filed by
Tisha’s House of Soul LLC, from the
determination of the Board of Public Service
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a
carryout restaurant with outdoor cooking
(Barbeque Pit), no liquor or outside seating at
4976 West Florissant. WARD 1
#AO519771-15/BPS121300 ZONE: “F” –
Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #10602 – Appeal filed by
The Karpeles Manuscript Library Museum,
from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of building permit
authorizing the Appellant to install one nonilluminated wall sign, per plans, at 3524
Russell. WARD 6 #AB520393-15 ZONE:
“D” – Multiple Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10603 – Appeal filed by
Skinker-Debaliviere Com Housing Corp, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of building permit
authorizing the Appellant to construct four
attached town homes, zoning only, per plans,
at 521 Des Peres Ave. WARD 28 #AB52064215 ZONE: “B” – Two Family Dwelling
District

APPEAL #9669 – Appeal filed by D/B/
A Halfway Haus, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
request to amend previously issued use

variance to allow the Appellant to operate a
full drink bar with outside seating, no cooking
and to change the hours of operation at 7900
Michigan. (Amend) WARD 11 #AO48507110 ZONE: “B” – Two Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #10582 – Appeal filed by Fast
Line Auto Sales, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate an auto sales and repair business at
1422 Montgomery. (Cont) WARD 5
#AO520118-15 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District
3. Deliberations on the above hearings
4. Approval of Written decisions,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law from
hearings and deliberations held on May 6,
2015.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday May 7, 2015 on the following
conditional uses:
4669 S 37th St. - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Trejo Landscaping, LLC (Landscaping/Office Use Only) “A”-Single Family
Dwelling District. Mv Ward 25
4934 Eichelberger - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Moxic Construction (Electrical
Contracting/Office Use Only) “A” Single
Multiple Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward
14
2612 S 12th St. - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Judith Howard (General Construction/Office Use Only) “D” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 9
2300 S. Grand - #AO-521256-15-South
Grand Mart (Grocery Store/Full Packaged
Liquor/No Cooking) “H” Area Commercial
District. Te Ward 8
1009 S. Taylor - #AO-521194-15Arnold’s Quick Shop (Convenience Store/No
Cooking/No Liquor/1st fl) “F”- Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv Ward 17
3101 Arsenal - #AO-521276-15-Grove
East Provisions (Grocery Store/Sidewalk
Seating/Full Drink/Outside Oven/1st fl) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District. Mv
Ward 6

3537 S. Kingshighway - #AB-52017515-Ivan Garcia (Interior/Exterior Alterations
per plans for Multi-Fam) “F”- Neighborhood
Commercial District. Bl Ward 10

1400 Grattan - #AB-511160-14-Joe
Switzer (Construct Commercial Building/
Zoning Only) “H” Area Commercial District.
Bl Ward 7

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday May 14, 2015 on the following
conditional uses:

3338 Minnesota - Home Occupancy
Waiver-The HVAC Guy (Heating/Cooling/
Office Use Only) “B”-Two Family Dwelling
District. Mv Ward 9

1233 Orchid - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Omni Sports Producers (Video
Production/Office Use Only) “A” Single
Multiple Family Dwelling District. Mv Ward
2

1637 S. 18 th - #AO-521338-15Clememtine’s on the Square, LLC (Ice Cream
Parlor/Full Drink/Sidewalk Seating/Carryout
Only) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Mv Ward 7

5485-87 Union - #AO-520620-15 - A
Better Learning Center, LLC (Daycare/34
Children/16 Infants/18 2 ½ to 12yrs /6am to
12 Midn./1st fl) “ F ” - N e i g h b o r h o o d
Commercial District. Mv Ward 27

4401-05 Shreve - #AO-521180-15Kid’s Learning Center (Daycare/40 Children/
16 Infants/24 2 ½ to 12yrs./M-F/6am to 12
midn./No Cooking) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv Ward 1

2507-25 January - #AO-521260-15-St.
Louis Montessori (Daycare/60 Children/8
Infants/52 2 ½ to 12yrs./M-F/6am to 9pm/
No Cooking) “F”-Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 10

4920 Hampton - #AO-520889-15Dragonfly Fitness & Training, LLC (Fitness
Center/Aerobic Classes/1st fl/No Showers/Exp.
Business) “F”- Neighborhood Commercial
District. Mv Ward 16

5400 S. Kingshighway - #AO-52123215-Organics, LLC (Organic Food Market/
Beer/Wine/No Cooking) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv Ward 14

4500 W. Pine Blvd. - #AO-520439-15Greitens for Missouri (Political Office/ 2nd
and 3rd fls) “E” – Multiple Family Dwelling

District. Mv Ward 17
3920 W. Pine Blvd. - #AO-521346-15JWAS, LLC (Animal/Boarding/Care/24 Hours)
“J” - Industrial District. Mv Ward 17
2617 Shenandoah - AB-520606-15Eagle II— Fox Park Campus (Interior/Exterior
Alterations per plans for School) “C”
Multiple Family Dwelling District. Te Ward
7

SOLICITATION FOR
PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BUILDING DIVISION
The City of St. Louis Building Division
is soliciting proposals for Court Reporting
Services to record the legal proceedings of the
Board of Adjustment and the Board of
Building Appeals. Court Reporting Service
must be certified under the MCRA ( Missouri
Court Reporters Association). To obtain a
copy of this RFP please contact:
Randall C. Mourning
Building Division
City Hall - Room 426
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
mourningr@stlouis-mo.gov
All responses shall be addressed and
returned in sealed envelopes or container to
the above address. RFP closing date is
April 30, 2015 5:00 P.M. Central Daylight
Savings Time.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP – UPS Maintenance
Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Purchasing, 1200
Clark Avenue, Room 605, St. Louis, Missouri
63103, until 11:00 a.m. local time, Friday,
May 15, 2015 they will be opened publicly
and announced.
Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of Purchasing by
prospective bidders upon request in person
or by telephone during regular business hours.
A request may be made by email at:

clshepard@slmpd.org or
bnturner@slmpd.org.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department shall be entitled to recover any
damages resulting from termination.
The Metropolitan Police Department
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Department
also reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Department will
consider the location of the business, minority
interest in the business, prior performance and
the bid submitted in relation to the needs of
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5996 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).

BRAD TURNER
BUYER
ST. LOUIS METROPOLITAN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
BNTURNER@SLMPD.ORG

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL RFP-015
ST. LOUIS DRUG COURTS
22nd JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
CITY OF ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

The St. Louis Drug Courts are seeking
proposals for Association with Professional
Providers for the provision of Alcohol and
Drug Treatment Service and/or Mental Health
Services for Participants of the Adult Drug
Court, Veterans Treatment Court, Family
Drug Court and Juvenile Drug Courts as part
of the St. Louis Drug Court Treatment
Network of Providers. A copy of the Request
for Proposal can be obtained by writing to:
Drug Court Administrator, Room 526, 1114
Market St., St. Louis, Missouri 63101 or
calling 314-589-6702 for a mail out copy.
Interested providers may obtain the
proposal specifications by accessing
www.stlcitycircuitcourt.com on that website
click on Drug Court to find the RFP. Proposals
should be submitted no later than 4 p.m. on
May 27, 2015 in Room 526, 1114 Market St.,
St. Louis, Missouri 63101.

Request for Proposals
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY

FOR CATERING SERVICES

The Department of Parks, Recreation &
Forestry is looking for interested companies
to submit proposals for catering services at
the Jewel Box, World’s Fair Pavilion, and
Cabanne House in Forest Park.

The Requests For Proposals may be
obtained at the Parks, Recreation & Forestry
Administration Building, 5600 Clayton Road
in Forest Park, St. Louis, MO 63110 or
downloaded from the City’s website at
http://stlouis-mo.gov/government/parks.

A Facility Walk-through is scheduled
for Tuesday, May 12, 2015 at 10:00 A.M.

Sealed Bids will be received until 4:00
P.M., St. Louis, MO time, May 29, 2015, at
the Department of Parks, Recreation &
Forestry.

The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Bidders shall
comply with Mayor’s Executive Order #28,
as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this concession bid in part or in its
entirety.

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

_______________________________
The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is MAY 8, 2015.

ATTORNEY I
Prom./O.C. 2285
$47,814 to $72,696 (Annual Salary Range)

ATTORNEY I (TRAINEE)
Prom./O.C. 2284
$1,655. 00 (Bi-weekly Pay Rate)

____________________________
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is MAY 15, 2015.

CLERK TYPIST II
Prom./O.C. 2286
$25,714 to $38,792 (Annual Salary Range)

_______________________________
Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.
Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov
Richard R. Frank,
Director
April 22, 2015

ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN

NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS
LIVING WAGE RATES
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2014
In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
(“Ordinance”) and the Regulations associated
therewith, the City Compliance Official for
the City of St. Louis has determined that the
following living wage rates are now in effect
for employees of covered contracts:
1)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are provided to the
employee, the living wage rate is
$12.37 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three); and

2)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are not provided to
the employee, the living wage rate is
$16.18 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three, plus fringe benefit
rates as defined in the Ordinance).

3)

Wages required under Chapter 6.20
of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis: $3.81 per hour.

These rates are based upon federal poverty
level income guidelines as defined in the
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of
April 1, 2014. These rates will be further
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty
level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services or
pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis.
The Ordinance applies to employers who are
covered by the Ordinance as defined in the
Ordinance, where the contract or grant is
entered into or renewed after the effective date
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or
obtained from:
City Compliance Official
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Certification and Compliance Office
P.O. Box 10212
St. Louis, Mo 63145
(314) 426-8111
Dated: March 11, 2014

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS
CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses

who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER

Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
APRIL 28, 2015 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13, 2015
Crafco Hot Applied Sealer P/N
CRA34221-MO
per Requisition #42015Q0405. (SG)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to: http://
stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm then,
search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com.
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

Local Preference
ORDINANCE #69431
Board Bill No. 295
Committee Substitute As Amended
An Ordinance repealing Section One,
part 86.040 of Ordinance 56716, pertaining
to the opening of bids, codified as Section
5.58.040 of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis, and enacting a new provision on the
same subject matter which allows a local bidder
to match the lowest bid when the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder; enacting a new
provision on the same subject matter;
containing severability clause.

WHEREAS, local businesses which seek
to enter into contracts with the City of St.
Louis are at a competitive disadvantage with
businesses from other areas because of the
higher administrative costs of doing business
in the City;
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis
desires to encourage businesses to remain in
the City and to relocate to the City;
WHEREAS, by enacting a local
preference law that allows a local firm to match
the lowest bid when its bid is within 2%
percent of the lowest bid, the City hopes to
encourage and stimulate local business.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE. Section One, part
86.040, Ordinance 56716 is hereby repealed.
SECTION TWO. Enacted in lieu
thereof is the following new section.
5.58.040 - Opening of bids.
A. Proposals shall be opened at the time
and place fixed by the advertisement, in the
presence of such bidders as desire to be
present, and shall be open to the inspection
of bidders.
B. The bids shall not be materially
modified or amended as to price, specification
or otherwise, nor substitutions placed thereon,
after opening except when the lowest bid is
from a non-local bidder. When the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder, any local bidder
within two percent of the lowest bid may
match the lowest bid. If a local bidder matches
the lowest bid, then the Supply Commissioner
may select the bid from the local bidder. If
more than one local bidder is within two
percent of the lowest bid, then only the lowest
local bidder may match the bid. In all other
circumstances, modification, supplementation
or amendment shall cause rejection of the bid.
For purposes of this chapter, local bidder
means a bidder whose principal place of
business is within the City of St. Louis, has
had a valid business license for at least one
year, and is current in payment of local taxes.
Principal place of business shall be defined as
the business’s physical office, plant, or site
where a majority (51%) of the full-time
employees, chief officer, and managers of the
business regularly work and conduct business,
or where the plant or office and equipment
required for the furnishing of the goods or
performance of the services provided to the
City, as required by the contract, are physically
located in the City of St. Louis for at least one
taxable year immediately prior to the date of

the bid.

C. Bids may be for one or more or all the
articles advertised for, but there shall be a
specific bid on each article. The award may be
made to the lowest bidder for any article, or
to the lowest bidder for the entire requisition
or any part thereof, but the Board of
Standardization may reject any or all bids or
any part of any bid.
SECTION THREE. Severability.

The provisions of this section are
severable. If any provision of this ordinance
is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions of the ordinance which
can be given effect without the invalid
provision.
Approved: April 29, 2013

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved
Carol L. Shepard, CPA
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

