The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register

1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri

Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2004-2005
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 2004.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers, May 27, 2004.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Smith,
Flowers, Bosley, Ryan, Ford-Griffin, Reed,
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Kennedy, McMillan, Schmid, JonesKing, Boyd, Hanrahan, Bauer, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and Mr. President
Shrewsbury. 27

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUEST
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING

Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for May 14, 2004.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

Board of Aldermen Report,
May 27, 2004, St .Louis, Missouri.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
I wish to report that on the 21st day of
May 2004, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 28
An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller of the City of
St. Louis (the “City”) to enter into and execute
on behalf of the City the “First Amendment
To Northern Tract Lease Agreement” at
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”) (hereinafter referred to as the “First
Amendment”) to the Airport Northern Tract
Lease Agreement AL-100 between the City
and McDonnell Douglas Corporation, a
corporation of the State of Maryland, dated
December 17, 2001, and authorized by City
Ordinance No. 65243, approved July 18,
2001 (the “Agreement”); the First
Amendment to the Agreement, which is
attached hereto as ATTACHMENT “1” and
made a part hereof, was approved by the
City’s Airport Commission, and its terms are
more fully described in Section One of this
Ordinance; providing that the provisions set
forth in this Ordinance shall be applicable
exclusively to the Agreement as amended by
the First Amendment; containing a
severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 32
An ordinance pertaining to leases of the
public wharf; repealing Ordinance 61755 and
enacting in lieu thereof a new ordinance
authorizing the Port Authority Commission
of the City of St. Louis, within six months
prior to the expiration, execution or renewal
of any lease on the unimproved wharf, to
advertise for proposals on behalf of the City
of St. Louis in newspapers, of general
circulation, the City Journal and trade journals
of national publication including but not
limited to the Waterway Journal; providing
for an exception for any portion of the
unimproved public wharf which is subject to
the terms and conditions of a lease; and
containing an emergency clause.
Karen L. Divis, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061

Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have returned to the Board, B.B. #428
which I have vetoed.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061
May 24, 2004
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, MO 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the honor to return to your
Honorable Board herewith, with my approval
endorsed thereon, the following: Board Bill
Nos. 39 and 40.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis

Petitions & Communications
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 90
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in an irregular portion of Singleton Street
extending westwardly from 17 th Street
293.705 feet ± 7.425 feet to a point in the
City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter
described, in accordance with Charter
authority, and in conformity with Section l4
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing
certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Member Krewson introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 91

An ordinance pertaining to the Central
West End North Special Business District;
amending Section Four of Ordinance 62622,
approved on May 29, 1992 by changing the
necessary qualifications of the members of
the Board of Commissioners for the District
and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Carter introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 92

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in an irregular portion of Oriole Street (approx.
61.25’ x 271.45’) between Switzer and railroad
right-of-way in the City of St. Louis, Missouri,
as hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.
Board Member Ford-Griffin introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 93

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in a 20 foot east/west alley in City Block 1143
as bounded by Palm, 13th, Hebert and 14th in
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter
described, in accordance with Charter
authority, and in conformity with Section l4
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing
certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Member Roddy introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 94

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in three irregular portions of sidewalk on the
south side of Parkview Place abutting City
Block 3887, same bounded by Parkview Place,
Euclid Ave., Children’s Place and
Kingshighway in the City of St. Louis,
Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.
Board Member Schmid introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 95

An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 3221, 3227 & 3248-50 California
Avenue Area (“Area”) after finding that the
Area is blighted as defined in Section 99.320

of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as
amended, (the “Statute” being Sections 99.300
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of
St. Louis (“City”), attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit “A”, finding
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the
Area is in the interest of the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the people
of the City; approving the Blighting Study
and Plan dated February 24, 2004 for the Area
(“Plan”), incorporated herein by attached
Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430;
finding that there is a feasible financial plan
for the redevelopment of the Area which
affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain; finding that the property
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be
responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.
Board Member Schmid introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 96
An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 3109 Meramec Street Area
(“Area”) after finding that the Area is blighted
as defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the
“Statute” being Sections 99.300 to 99.715
inclusive), containing a description of the
boundaries of said Area in the City of St. Louis
(“City”), attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit “A”, finding that
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area
is in the interest of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of
the City; approving the Blighting Study and
Plan dated February 24, 2004 for the Area
(“Plan”), incorporated herein by attached
Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430;
finding that there is a feasible financial plan
for the redevelopment of the Area which
affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area

may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain; finding that the property
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be
responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.
Board Member McMillan introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 97
An
ordinance
approving
a
Redevelopment Plan for the 1517 Theresa
Avenue Area (“Area”) after finding that the
Area is blighted as defined in Section 99.320
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 2000, as
amended, (the “Statute” being Sections 99.300
to 99.715 inclusive), containing a description
of the boundaries of said Area in the City of
St. Louis (“City”), attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit “A”, finding
that redevelopment and rehabilitation of the
Area is in the interest of the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the people
of the City; approving the Plan dated April
27, 2004 for the Area (“Plan”), incorporated
herein by attached Exhibit “B”, pursuant to
Section 99.430; finding that there is a feasible
financial plan for the development of the Area
which affords maximum opportunity for
development of the Area by private enterprise;
finding that the property in the Area may not
be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain; finding that the property
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it
should become occupied the Redeveloper
shall be responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that there
shall be available ten (10) year real estate tax
abatement; and pledging cooperation of the
Board of Aldermen and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the city to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.
Board Member Heitert introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 98

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in an irregular portion of Hamburg (excess
right-of-way) extending from Hildesheim
southwestwardly 150 feet to a point and
abutting 7430 Hildesheim in the City of St.
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.

Board Member Bauer introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 99

An ordinance submitting to the qualified
voters of the City of St. Louis a proposed
amendment to the Charter of the City of St.
Louis adding a new section 5 to Article I
relating to the composition of the City
Government; providing for a Mayor,
Comptroller, President of the Board of
Aldermen, Board of Aldermen, License
Collector, Recorder of Deeds, Treasurer,
Sheriff, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Collector
of Revenue and Public Administrator; further
providing that the Mayor Comptroller and
President of the Board of Aldermen shall
constitute the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment; providing for an election to
be held thereon; and for the manner of voting
thereat and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Gregali introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 100

An ordinance pertaining to amending the
Charter of the City of St. Louis; requiring the
proponents of any petition or ordinance
proposing an amendment to the Charter of
the City of St. Louis to submit a statement of
fiscal impact to the Budget Director within
ten days of filing the proposed amendment
with the Board of Election; further directing
the Budget Director to prepare a fiscal note
within twenty days of the filing of the petition
or ordinance proposing an amendment to the
Charter and filing such fiscal note with the
Secretary of the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment; and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Member Williamson introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 101

An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 5180 Maple Avenue Area (“Area”)
after finding that the Area is blighted as defined
in Section 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the “Statute”
being Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of

said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Blighting Study and Plan dated April 27,
2004 for the Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein
by attached Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section
99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial
plan for the redevelopment of the Area which
affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain, finding that the property
within the Area is unoccupied, but if it should
become occupied the Redeveloper shall be
responsible for relocating any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 102
An ordinance recommended by the
Parking Commission making appropriation for
payment of the operating expenses, capital
equipment and improvement expenses,
including lease purchase agreements involving
Parking Division assets, and debt service
expenses of the Parking Division of the
Treasurer’s Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,
Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking
Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility, and
the Central Downtown Parking Facility for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2004 and
ending June 30, 2005, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of Eleven Million, Four
Hundred Eighty Five Thousand, Two
Hundred Dollars ($11,485,200) and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 103
An ordinance approving a redevelopment
plan for the 1129 Penrose St. Area (“Area”)
after finding that the Area is blighted as defined
in Section 99.320 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, 2000, as amended, (the “Statute”

being Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of
said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Blighting Study and Plan dated March 15,
2004 for the Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein
by attached Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section
99.430; finding that there is a feasible financial
plan for the redevelopment of the Area which
affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”) through the exercise of
eminent domain or otherwise; finding that the
property within the Area is occupied and the
Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the St. Louis Board
of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting various
officials, departments, boards and agencies of
the City to cooperate and to exercise their
respective powers in a manner consistent with
the Plan.
Board Member Young introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 104
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in O’Fallon Street from Lewis Street to Wharf
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.
Board Members Florida and Ortmann
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 105
An ordinance establishing a “Parental
Responsibility Code,” requiring parents and
guardians to supervise their children who are
under seventeen years of age; containing a
penalty clause and an emergency clause.
Board Member Ortmann introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 106
An ordinance relating to the appointment
of and the salaries of certain employees in the
Collector of Revenue’s office pursuant to
Section 82.610, Revised Statutes of Missouri,

by repealing Ordinance 64945, approved June
8, 2000 and Ordinance 65520 approved June
15, 2002, (Chapter 4.44, Rev. Code, St. Louis,
1994, Anno.) and adopting nine (9) new
sections and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Ortmann introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 107

An ordinance to repeal Ordinance
#64946, approved June 8, 2000 and Ordinance
65522 approved June15, 2002 relating to the
appointment and rates of compensation of
certain employees of the License Collector of
the City of St. Louis and enacting in lieu thereof
a new ordinance dealing with the same subject
matter and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Ortmann introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 108

An ordinance to amend Chapter 4.34 of
the Revised Code of the City of St. Louis
amended by Ordinance #65517, approved June
15,2002 and Ordinance 64943 approved June
8, 2000 entitled Recorder of Deeds employees
and Salaries by repealing Section 4.34.010 of
Chapter 4.34 of the Revised Code relating to
titles, salaries and duties of such employees,
and enacting in lieu thereof a new section to
be known as Section 4.34.010 of Chapter 4.34
of the Revised Code, relating to the same
subject matter and containing an emergency
clause .
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 109

An ordinance to repeal Ordinance
#64950, approved June 8, 2000 and Ordinance
65519 approved June 15, 2002 relating to the
number and salaries of the Treasurer’s Office
and to enact in lieu thereof certain new
sections relating to the same subject matter
and containing an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
BB#90 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#92 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#93 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#94 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#98 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#102 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#104 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#109 - Streets, Traffic & Refuse
BB#91 - Ways & Means
BB#95 - Neighborhood Development
BB#96 - Neighborhood Development
BB#97 - Neighborhood Development
BB#101 - Neighborhood Development
BB#99 - Legislation
BB#100 - Legislation

BB#103 - Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
BB#105 - Public Safety
BB#106 - Public Employees
BB#107 - Public Employees
BB#108 - Public Employees

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways
& Means submitted the following report which
was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 27, 2004.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Ways & Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 79
An Ordinance pertaining to the
Transportation Sales Tax imposed pursuant
to Senate Bill 432 as adopted and approved
by the voters of St. Louis City on August 2,
1994, pursuant to Ordinance 63168; creating
the “City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust
Fund” directing the Treasurer of the City of
St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant
to said sales tax into the City Public Transit
Sales Tax Trust Fund” appropriating NINE
MILLION, FIVE HUNDRED, FORTYONE
THOUSAND
DOLLARS
($9,541,000) from the said sales tax for the
period herein stated to the Bi-State
Development Agency for certain purposes;
providing for the payment of such funds
during the period July 1, 2004 through, June
30, 2005 ; further providing that in no event
shall the Comptroller draw warrants on the
Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amounts of the proceeds deposited in the
“City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund”
during the period of July 1, 2004 through
June 30, 2005 ; containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 80
An ordinance appropriating the sum of
NINETEEN MILLION, EIGHTY-TWO
THOUSAND DOLLARS ($19,082,000), as
described and defined in Section 94.600
through 94.655, R.S. Mo. Supp. 1986 as
amended for the period herein stated, which
sum is hereby appropriated out of the
“Transportation Trust Fund” to the Bi-State
Development Agency for transportation
purposes; and further providing that the
appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State
Development Agency supplying the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment an annual
evaluation report; further providing that in no
event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on
the Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amount of proceeds deposited in the

“Transportation Trust Fund” during the
period from July 1, 2004 through June 30,
2005; providing for the appropriation to be
reduced if certain funds are used for other than
public transit purposes; further providing that
the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State
requiring the payment of prevailing wages and
benefits to employees of outside service
contractors; and containing a severability
clause.
Alderman Conway
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Public Safety submitted the following report
which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 27, 2004.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Public Safety to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 73
An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Twenty-second Ward
Liquor Control District, as established herein,
for a period of three years from the effective
date hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 74
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance pertaining to the Liquor
Control Law of the City of St. Louis; amending
Section Two of Ordinance 66227 setting forth
an area which shall no longer be within the
convention trade area of the City of St. Louis;
containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
Mr. Schmid moved that Board Bill
No. 41 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill
No. 47 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Conway moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of moving the following Board
Bills to the third reading calendar for final
passage: Board Bill No. 47.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Ford-Griffin, Reed, Young, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels,
Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,
Hanrahan, Bauer, Williamson, Carter,
Krewson and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 28
Noes:0
Present:0

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bill No. 47
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Smith, Flowers, Bosley, Ryan,
Ford-Griffin, Reed, Young, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Wessels,
Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd,
Hanrahan, Bauer, Williamson, Carter,
Krewson and Mr. President Shrewsbury. 28
Noes:0
Present:0

Board Bill No. 47

An ordinance to provide for the
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the
collection of tax payments levied by the City
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending
December 31, 2004, and remaining uncollected
and other revenues remaining to be collected
and deposited in the General Revenue Fund
for fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, all such
revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the
Treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,
Missouri of its tax and revenue anticipation
notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement
if necessary in order to lower the cost of such
borrowing; prescribing the form and details of
such notes; authorizing and approving certain
documents and other actions; and containing
an emergency clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, May 27, 2004 .
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Engrossed &
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bill report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 47
An ordinance to provide for the
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the
collection of tax payments levied by the City
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending
December 31, 2004, and remaining uncollected
and other revenues remaining to be collected
and deposited in the General Revenue Fund
for fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, all such
revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the
Treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,
Missouri of its tax and revenue anticipation
notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement
if necessary in order to lower the cost of such
borrowing; prescribing the form and details of
such notes; authorizing and approving certain
documents and other actions; and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Bill Number 47 was read and all
other business being suspended, Mr.
Shrewsbury, in the presence of the Board and
in open session, affixed his signature in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced
Resolution Nos. 63-67 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 63
WHEREAS , we have been apprised that
after more than 24 years of dedicated service
as Vice-President for Governmental Affairs
for Bi-State Development Agency, Sterling
Adams retired on April 1, 2004; and
WHEREAS, Sterling was born and raised
in St. Louis and is a distinguished graduate of
the University of Missouri - St. Louis and
Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville;
and

WHEREAS , after his honorable
discharge from the United States Marines,
Sterling began his career in public service as
the Commissioner for pre-trial release services
for the 22nd Judicial Circuit; and
WHEREAS , in addition to serving as
vice-president for governmental affairs and
liaison to the St. Louis City Board of Aldermen
for Bi-State Development Agency, Sterling is
the Chairman of the Missouri Human Rights
Commission; and

WHEREAS, we are certain that Sterling
is looking forward to a well deserved retirement
with his family and his many friends;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Sterling Adams
for 24 years of service Bi-State Development
Agency and we wish him peace and happiness
in his retirement and we direct the Clerk of
this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to further prepare a commemorative copy to
the end that it may be presented to our honoree
at a time and place deemed appropriate by
the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 27th day of May, 2004 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward

Resolution No. 64
WHEREAS, on Thursday, May 27,
2004, students from Lexington Elementary
School will visit the St. Louis City Board of
Aldermen as part of the First Ward political
leadership’s effort to recognize those students
who have shown the most academic
improvement during this school year; and
WHEREAS, Lexington Elementary
School is located at 5030 Lexington Avenue in
the First Ward and is part of the St. Louis
Public School System; and
WHEREAS, Lexington Elementary
School has long been recognized as an
outstanding educational institution with
dedicated teachers and support staff, utilizing
an innovative and creative curriculum to
prepare its students for the future; and
WHEREAS , the students at Lexington
Elementary School exemplify a commitment
to excellence through their dedication to their
classwork and their superior attendance
record; and
WHEREAS , among the members of this
exceptional student body is Warrett Watson
who is one of the most improved students in
his Kindergarten class in Room 109;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of

the City of St. Louis that we congratulate
Warrett Watson and all of the students of
Lexington Elementary School, as well as their
teachers and parents, for their outstanding
commitment to education and we encourage
them to maintain their high level of enthusiasm
and dedication and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 27th day of May, 2004 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward

Resolution No. 65

WHEREAS , Christian Taylor Ferguson
was born in the City of St. Louis on October
9, 1993. Christian entered this life with a rare
genetic disorder called Citrullinemia which
required a daily regimen of medication in order
to keep him alive; and

WHEREAS , on June 11, 2003, Christian
was reported missing, a tragic disappearance
which continues to confound his family,
friends and law enforcement officials nearly a
year later; and

WHEREAS , at the time he was taken
from his loved ones, Christian suffered from a
severe mental disability which left him
defenseless and totally dependent upon others
to provide the medical care he required; and
WHEREAS , the mysterious loss of a child is
a numbing experience which robs families of
their most precious members; and

WHEREAS, on June 11, 2004,
Christian’s mother, Theda R. Thomas and
Christian’s family and many friends will gather
together to honor Christian and all of those
children who have been wrongfully taken from
this community;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to remember and honor Christian
Taylor Ferguson and all of the children of our
community who are not presently with us
and whose current whereabouts are unknown
and we further join with the families of these
missing children in supporting every effort to
locate them and return them to their loved
ones and we direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to further
prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.

Introduced on the 27th day of May, 2004 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward

Resolution No. 66
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to recognize a prominent member
of the Penrose Neighborhood community and
an outstanding educator, Conchita D. Curry,
who has taught in the St. Louis Public School
System for more than 35 years; and
WHEREAS , Mrs. Curry is a
distinguished graduate of Beaumont High
School, the University of Missouri at St. Louis
and Harris Stowe Teacher’s College; and
WHEREAS , Mrs. Curry is a long time
resident of the Penrose Neighborhood and has
been privileged to be assigned to elementary
schools located in the Penrose community
throughout her many years of service and
presently teaches in the Kingsway West
Neighborhood at Lexington School as a result
of the unfortunate closing of Scullin School
last year; and
WHEREAS , throughout her outstanding
career, Mrs. Curry’s dedication to academic
excellence has been recognized with numerous
awards and honors including the St. Louis
Public School Teacher of the Year Award in
1989 and 2001, the Emerson Electric Co.
Excellence in Teaching Award in 1990 and
2001, the Harris Stowe State College Alumna
Award in 1994 and was most recently
recognized as a distinguished teacher by Who’s
Who Among American Teachers; and
WHEREAS , in addition to her
contributions to the young students of the St.
Louis Public School System, Mrs. Curry is
actively involved in many community based
organizations, including the Penrose Self
Reliance Neighborhood Association, Metro St.
Louis Alliance of Black Educators, Beyond
Housing/Neighborhood Housing Service and
Block unit 468E; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Curry is a faithful
member of the St. Louis Gospel Assembly
and is an exceptional member of our
community whose commitment to our
children and service to all of our citizens is
greatly appreciated;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we break from our
regular agenda to recognize Conchita D. Curry
and thank her for her many contributions to
the education of the children of the City of St.
Louis and for her many years of service to the
St. Louis community and we further direct
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of
this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy for presentation to our honoree at a time

and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 27th day of May, 2004 by:
Honorable Irene J. Smith, Alderwoman 1st Ward

Resolution No. 67
WHEREAS , we have been apprised that
on May 28, 2004 Ronald A. Hearst, P.E.,
President of the Board of Public Service since
2001, will retire from city service; and
WHEREAS , Ron was born and raised
in Albany, New York and is a distinguished
graduate of the U. S. Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Maryland; and
WHEREAS , after graduating from the
Naval Academy, Ron was commissioned as a
Second Lieutenant in the United States Air
Force and served his country in various
assignments around the world for more than
22 years; and
WHEREAS , upon his retirement from
military duty, Ron began his career as a
professional engineer working as a Consulting
Engineer for several local firms, including
Booker Associates, Campbell Design Group,
Sverdrup and Parsons Brinckerhoff, Quade
and Douglas; and
WHEREAS, since December 10, 2001,
Ron has served the City of St. Louis in the
demanding position of President of the Board
of Public Service and his hard work,
professionalism and commitment to the growth
and development of this City will be greatly
missed; and
WHEREAS, we are certain that Ron is
looking forward to a well deserved retirement
in his native New York surrounded by his
family, friends and horses;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Ronald A. Hearst
for his many years of public service to the
City of St. Louis and we wish him peace and
happiness in his retirement and we direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to further prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 27th day of May, 2004 by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson, Alderman 28th Ward
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution Nos. 63-67 stood
considered.
Mr. President Shrewsbury moved that
Resolution Nos. 63-67 be adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.

Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced
Resolution No. 68 and requested that it be
assigned to the Personnel Committee for
hearing.

Resolution No. 68
WHEREAS , on Wednesday, June 30,
2004, the position of Clerk of the Board of
Aldermen will be vacant as a result of the
retirement of Karen Divis; and

WHEREAS , Rule 83 of the 2004-05
Rules of the Board of Aldermen provides for
the manner in which staff vacancies are filled;
and

WHEREAS , Rule 87 (1) of the 2004-05
Rules of the Board of Aldermen lists the duties
of the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; and

WHEREAS , it is the intent of this Board
to assign the duties and responsibilities of the
Office of the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen
to the Legal Counsel of the Board of Aldermen;
and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we suspend the
provisions of Aldermanic Rule 83 for the
purpose of assigning the duties and
responsibilities of the Clerk of the Board of
Aldermen, as found in Aldermanic Rule 87(1)
to the Legal Counsel of the Board of Aldermen.
Such assignment of duties and responsibilities
to take effect on July 1, 2004 and shall continue
until such further action as may be deemed
necessary by a majority of the members of
the Board.
Introduced on the 27 day of May, 2004 by:

Honorable James F. Shrewbury, President
Honorable Phyllis Young, Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Terry Kennedy, Alderman 18th Ward
Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable April Ford-Griffin, Alderwoman 4th Ward

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
All Aldermen were present.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return Friday, June 4, 2004.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Respectfully submitted,
Karen L. Divis, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO – June 1, 2004
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present:
Directors Visintainer,
Suelmann, Siedhoff, Moore and President
Melton.
Absent: Directors Bess, Simon and
Griggs. (excused)
Requests of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Forestry designating Mr.
Daniel Skillman to act in his behalf; Director
of Public Safety; Director of Airport to be
excused from the Regular Meeting of
June 1, 2004 designating Mr. Don Huber to
act in his behalf were received and leaves of
absence granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
May 25, 2004 were unanimously approved.
The following documents were referred
by the Secretary:

May 27, 2004
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets: 108810, LightCore, to install and
maintain wires, underground conduit at
Walnut/Broadway/Walnut/Jack Buck; 108811,
LightCore, to install and maintain wires,
underground
conduit
and
other
telecommunication facilities at 14th/Clark, 900
Walnut/9th and Beaumont/Dr. Martin Luther
King.
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety: 108812, Delmar-Laurel LLC,
consolidate land in C.B. 5515 at 5860-72
Delmar.
To the Director of Streets: Petition No.
6609, St. Louis Casino Corp., vacate Dr.
Martin Luther King Drive b/t 2nd and 3rd.

HEARING HELD
- ACTION DEFERRED
The Board of Public Service, after
holding a hearing to consider the revocation of

Conditional Use Permit No. 103745, Titanic
Coffee Shop, LLC, occupy 4632 Gravois as a
coffee house, for violation of Condition No.
3, “no selling of liquor, voted to deny the
request to revoke said permit.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by
Board Members and action thereon taken as
follows:

PRESIDENT
Proposed contracts and bonds ordered
approved as follows:
Letting No. 8249 – FY’05 Citywide
Sidewalk Contract, Project No. 04014,
Gateway Contractors, Inc., 701 Military,
St. Louis, MO 63125, Contract No. 19604.
Letting No. 8250 – Construction of the
Forest Park Parkway DeBaliviere t o
Kingshighway, Gaines Construction, Inc., 329
Josephville Rd., Wentzville, MO 63385,
Contract No. 19606.
All bids ordered rejected for Letting No.
8252 – 2003 Window Film Installation for
East Terminal and Main Terminal at Lambert,
due to project document inconsistencies.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
4 subdivisions ordered approved, as
follows, subject to certain conditions: 108812,
Delmar-Laurel, LLC, C.B. 5515 at 5860-72
Delmar; 108708, Cliff Matthews, C.B. 2704
at Nebraska/Dakota; 108784, Kingshighway
Acquisitions, Inc., C.B. 4387 at Natural
Bridge/Kingshighway/San Francisco; 108800,
King’s Food Market, Inc., C.B. 4369A at
Union and Sacramento.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
3 encroachment permits ordered
approved as follows, subject to certain
conditions: 108781, McBride and Sons Homes
of St. Louis, LLC, entry monuments/brick
pillars and arch sign at 3901 and 3900 Blaine;
108787, Union Electric d/b/a AmerenUE, set
40’ pole on n/side of alley, north of Maryland
approximately 160' west of centerline of N.
Taylor of 327 N. Taylor; 108788, Union
Electric d/b/a AmerenUE, set 40’ pole on n/
side of Wise approximately 485’ east of
centerline of Pierce at 1030 Highlands Plaza
Dr. east.

DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Application No. 108664, Successful
Children’s Academy, conduct day care center
at 5572 Natural Bridge ordered approved.
The following documents were not listed
on the posted Agenda: 266204-266208 and
266212.

Adjourned to meet
June 8, 2004 at 1:45 P.M.

Tuesday,

Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
Attest:
Darlene A. Plump,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 9, 2004, in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL 8311 - Appeal filed by Vintage
Auto Sales, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a used car lot for 30 cars at 4215 W.
Natural Bridge. Ward 21 #AO306924-04
ZONE: "F" - Neighborhood Commercial
District

APPEAL 8312 - Appeal filed by
Benjamin Hoover, Sr., from the determination
of the Board of Public Service in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to operate a new and used mattress
sales and flea market items business with no
outside storage at 4686 Natural Bridge. Ward
21 #AO299949-04 ZONE: "F" Neighborhood Commercial District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
E. Smoot, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 16, 2004, in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL 8313 - Appeal filed by Amos
Plumbing & Construction, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to do interior and exterior
alterations per plans to convert a multi-family
dwelling into six (6) condo units at 6100
Waterman. Ward 28 #AB306013-04 ZONE:
"C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District

APPEAL 8314 - Appeal filed by
Gwenetta Ewing, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
home occupancy waiver authorizing the
Appellant to operate a home day care for 10
children at 5336 Claxton Ave. Ward 1 ZONE:
"A" - Single Family Dwelling District

APPEAL 8315 - Appeal filed by Palm
Trees Ice Cream & Things, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a
convenience store at 4501 Margaretta.
Ward 21 #AO307496-04 ZONE: "B" - Two
Family Dwelling District
APPEAL 8316 - Appeal filed by
Missouri Botanical Gardens, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to construct a parking lot and
bus shelter per plans at 4471 Shaw. Ward 8
#AB305627-04 ZONE: "C" - Multiple
Family Dwelling District, "F" Neighborhood Commercial District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, June 17, 2004, on the following
conditional uses:
4339 Aldine - In Home Day Care 10
Kids: (2; 0-2 1/2, 4; 2 1/2 - 4, and 4; 5 and up)
- "C" - Multiple Family Dwelling District.
WARD 4
2803 Dodier - Home Occupancy Waiver
– Hauling (Office Use Only) - "C" - Multiple
Family Dwelling District. WARD 5
5445 Murdoch - Home Occupancy
Waiver – Construction (Office Use Only) "A" - Single Family Dwelling District.
WARD 16
1931 Oregon - Home Occupancy
Waiver – General Contractor (Office Use
Only) - "C" - Multiple Family Dwelling
District. WARD 6
6528 Pennsylvania - Home Occupancy
Waiver – General Contracting (Office Use
Only) - "B" - Two Family Dwelling District.
WARD 11
4860 Sacramento - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Construction (Office Use Only) "A" - Single Family Dwelling District.
WARD 1
2327 Gravois - #AO298005-04 - Gas
Station W/Oil Change, Tune Ups & U Hauling
Service (5 Trucks) - "G" - Local Commercial
and Office District. WARD 7

2646 Hickory - #AO306923-04 - Office
Space (Property Management Company) "D" - Multiple Family Dwelling District.
WARD 6
2632 S Kingshighway - #AB30380504 - Interior & Exterior Alterations Per Plans
- "D" - Multiple Family Dwelling District.
WARD 8
706 Park - #AB306056-04 - Interior
Alterations Per Plans - "J"- Industrial District.
Ward 7
4838 R St. Louis Ave - #AB302219-04
- Construct a Parking Lot Per Plans - "B" Two Family Dwelling District. Ward 4

ADVERTISEMENT

FOR BIDS
The ST. LOUIS AREA AGENCY ON
AGING (SLAAA) is seeking Proposals/
qualifications
for
elderly/disabled
transportation services to be performed
within the City of St. Louis during FY 2005.
Informational packets may be picked up after
9:00 a.m., June 22, 2004 at SLAAA, 7th Fl,
634 N. Grand Blvd., Tel # (612-5900).
Pre-bid conference will be held at
10:00 a.m., on June 29, 2004 at the Cardinal
Ritter Institute (CRI), Crusader Rm., 4483
Lindell.
All sealed TRANSPORTATION
Proposals/qualifications must be received at
the SLAAA office not later than 1:00 p.m.,
July 19, 2004.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this request in part or in its entirety.
You may contact the Director, SLAAA
at:
St. Louis Area Agency on Aging
634 North Grand, Suite 700
St. Louis, MO 63103
Office Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
(314) 612-5900 - VOICE
(314) 6212-5915 - FACSIMILE
Sykorad@stlouiscity.com (e-mail)

DEPARTMENT
OF PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS
The Department of Personnel,
Room 100 City Hall, City of St. Louis,
Missouri announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is June 18, 2004.

AIRFIELD
OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
Prom./O.C. 9031
$32,526 to $48,828 (Annual Salary Range)

CIVIL ENGINEER II
(Promotional Examination Open To
Permanent City Employees Only)
Prom. 9030
$43,004 to $64,558 (Annual Salary Range)

Application period for the following
examination will close when enough
applications are received to fill anticipated
vacancies. Please submit application as soon
as possible.

ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER I
Prom./O.C.C. 9029
$24,726 to $37,102 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacation, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefit privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured in the
office of the Department of Personnel, Room
100 City Hall. Applications can be submitted
on the Internet. Visit the city web site
(www.stlouiscity.com) and link to Jobs with
the City of St. Louis.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
June 2, 2004

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.
Please contact the License Collector,
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may
also refer to our on-line site at
www.stlouiscity.com.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised
that the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
#65597 and associated Regulations apply to
the service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Mr. Larry
Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or can be
accessed at http://www.st louiscity.com/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
June 8, 2004 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be
received by the undersigned to be opened at
the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items
listed below on the dates specified.

Notice to All Suppliers
NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

NO ADVERTISED
BIDS THIS WEEK
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

