The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2005-2006
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, May 20, 2005.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers, May 20, 2005.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Flowers,
Bosley, Ford-Griffin,Young, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert, Gregali,
Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Bauer,
Kirner, Williamson, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 23

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUEST
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETINGS
None.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

Petitions & Communications
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Vollmer introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 92
An ordinance establishing a two way
stop site for all north-south traffic traveling
on Morganford Road approaching the
intersection of Morganford Road and Juniata
Street and containing an emergency clause.
Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 93
An Ordinance pertaining to the
Transportation Sales Tax imposed pursuant
to Senate Bill 432 as adopted and approved
by the voters of St. Louis City on August 2,
1994, pursuant to Ordinance 63168; creating
the “City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust
Fund” directing the Treasurer of the City of
St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant
to said sales tax into the City Public Transit
Sales Tax Trust Fund” appropriating NINE
MILLION, SIX HUNDRED, SIXTY-SEVEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS ($9,667,000) from
the said sales tax for the period herein stated
to the Bi-State Development Agency for
certain purposes; providing for the payment
of such funds during the period July 1, 2005
through, June 30, 2006 ; further providing that
in no event shall the Comptroller draw
warrants on the Treasurer for an amount
greater than the amounts of the proceeds
deposited in the “City Public Transit Sales
Tax Trust Fund” during the period of July 1,
2005 through June 30, 2006 ; containing a
severability clause.
Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 94
An ordinance appropriating the sum of
NINETEEN MILLION, TWO HUNDRED
ONE
THOUSAND
DOLLARS
($19,201,000), as described and defined in
Section 94.600 through 94.655, R.S. Mo.
Supp. 1986 as amended for the period herein
stated, which sum is hereby appropriated out
of the “Transportation Trust Fund” to the
Bi-State Development Agency for
transportation purposes; and further
providing that the appropriation is conditional
upon the Bi-State Development Agency

supplying the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment an annual evaluation report;
further providing that in no event shall the
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer
for an amount greater than the amount of
proceeds deposited in the “Transportation
Trust Fund” during the period from July 1,
2005 through June 30, 2006; providing for
the appropriation to be reduced if certain
funds are used for other than public transit
purposes; further providing that the
appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State
requiring the payment of prevailing wages and
benefits to employees of outside service
contractors; and containing a severability
clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 95
An Ordinance adopting the International
Building Code, 2003 Edition with changes, as
the Building Code of the City of Saint Louis;
repealing Ordinance 64771, which adopted the
BOCA National Building Code, 1999 Edition;
repealing Ordinances 65204 and 65925, which
amended ordinance 64771; repealing Ordinance
65867, dealing with satellite antenna; and
containing a penalty clause, a savings clause
and an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 96
Terry Kennedy An Ordinance adopting
the International Residential Code, 2003
edition with changes, as the Residential Code
of the City of Saint Louis; and containing a
penalty clause, a savings clause and an
emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 97
An Ordinance adopting the International
Existing Building Code, 2003 Edition with
changes, as the Existing Building Code of the
City of Saint Louis; repealing Ordinance
65927; and containing a penalty clause, a
savings clause and an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 98
An Ordinance adopting the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2003 edition
with changes, as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Saint Louis; repealing
Ordinance 65023; repealing Ordinance 65929;
and containing a penalty clause; savings clause
and an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 99

An Ordinance adopting the International
Energy Conservation Code, 2004 Supplement
Edition with changes, as the Energy
Conservation Code of the City of Saint Louis;
and containing a penalty clause, a savings
clause and an emergency clause.

Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 100

An ordinance pertaining to the Leasehold
Revenue Bonds, Series 2005 authorized by
Ordinance 66648 and recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
appropriating from said bond funds account
for fiscal years FY05 and FY06 an amount
not to exceed twenty-seven million dollars
($27,000,000), to be used for the current
refunding of existing debt on the convention
center, dome stadium and Kiel center facilities,
convention center asset preservation costs,
and other public infrastructure improvements
promoting conventions and tourism in the
City; said funds available pursuant to the sale
of the bonds and expenditure of funds subject
to funds being placed in the bond fund account;
authorizing the Comptroller to draw warrants
from time to time upon submission of
properly certified vouchers in conformance
with procedures established by the
Comptroller of the City; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Member McMillan introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 101

An ordinance submitting to the qualified
voters residing in the Locust Central Business
District as established by Ordinance No.
58728, approved December 23, 1982, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 59248 approved
September 10, 1984 and Ordinance No. 60530
approved October 30, 1987 and Ordinance
No. 65133 approved January 18, 2001, a
proposal to impose a tax on all property
located in the district, including real property
used exclusively for residential purposes
located in the district; submitting said proposal
to the voters of said district at the general
election on November 8, 2005; and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Member McMillan introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 102

An ordinance to amend Ordinance
58728, approved December 23, 1982, as
amended by Ordinance 59248 approved
September 10, 1984, by repealing section 2(b)
of Ordinance 58728 and section 1(b) of
Ordinance 59248 which provide for the
assessment and collection of an ad valorem

tax not to exceed eighty-five cents ($.85) per
one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed
valuation of real property in the district except
that used exclusively for residential purpose,
and enacting a new section 2(b) of Ordinance
58728 and a new section 1(b) of Ordinance
59248 pertaining to the same subject matter,
but imposing the ad valorem tax upon all real
property in the district, including residential
property; and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 103
An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as a
Redevelopment Area known as the 2300
Locust Street Redevelopment Area pursuant
to the Real Property Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act; approving a
Redevelopment Plan and a Redevelopment
Project with respect thereto; adopting Tax
Increment financing within the Redevelopment
Area; making certain findings with respect
thereto; establishing the 2300 Locust Street
Special Allocation Fund; authorizing certain
actions by City officials; and containing a
severability clause.
Board Member Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 104
An Ordinance affirming adoption of a
Redevelopment Plan, Redevelopment Area,
Redevelopment project; authorizing the
execution of a Redevelopment Agreement
between the City and NSI Ventures, LLC;
prescribing the form and details of said
agreement; designating NSI Ventures, LLC, as
Developer of the Redevelopment Area;
making certain findings with respect thereto;
authorizing other related actions in connection
with the redevelopment of certain property
within the Redevelopment Area; and containing
a severability clause.
Board Member Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 105
An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing and directing the issuance and
delivery of not to exceed $1,800,000 plus
issuance costs principal amount of Tax
Increment Revenue Notes (2300 Locust
Street Redevelopment Project), of the City of
St. Louis, Missouri; prescribing the form and
details of such notes and the covenants and
agreements made by the City to facilitate and
protect the payment thereof; and prescribing
other matter relating thereto.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
Ways & Means
Board Bill Nos. 93, 94, 100, 101, 102

Public Safety
Board Bill Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98, 99
Public Utilities
None.
Legislation
None.
Health & Human Services
None.
Public Employees
None.
Streets, Traffic & Refuse
Board Bill No. 92
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bill Nos. 103, 104, 105
Neighborhood Development
None.
Convention and Tourism
None.
Parks & Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel & Administration
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Carter of the Committee on Health
and Human Services submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Health and Human
Services to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 74
An ordinance pertaining to the leases and
operation of four medical clinics in the City
of St. Louis; authorizing the Mayor and the
Comptroller to enter into leases with Grace
Hill Neighborhood Health Centers, Inc. and
Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health
Centers for the operation of four medical
clinics, and containing an emergency clause.
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
Fax (314) 622-4061

April 27, 2005
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, MO 63103
Dear Members of the Board:

I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individuals for
reappointments and appointment to the Board
of Trustees for the Community Mental
Health Fund:

The appointment of Mr. Leon Ashford,
who resides at 5134 Ashland, 63115, and
whose term will expire on December 31, 2007.

The reappointment of Ms. Mary Lou
Calzaretta, who resides at 4125 Holly Hills
Blvd., 63116, and whose term will expire on
December 31, 2007.

The reappointment of Ms. Ruby Jones,
who resides at 5629 Enright, 63112, and
whose term will expire on December 31, 2007.

The appointment of Mr. Philip Minden,
who resides at 1053 S. Taylor, 63110, and
whose term will expire on December 31, 2005,
Mr. Minden will replace Neil Duncan.

The appointment of Mr. Stephen F.
Doss, who resides at 6217 Rhodes, 63109,
and whose term will expire on December 31,
2005. Mr. Doss will replace Deborah Wilson.

The appointment of Ms. Caroline
Korybut, who resides at 42 Westmoreland,
63108, and whose term will expire on
December 31, 2007. Ms. Korybut will replace
Sharon Fairchild.

The appointment of Ms. Nina R. North
Murphy, who resides at 3447 Pestalozzi,
63118, and whose term will expire on
December 31, 2008. She will fill an expansion
slot.

The appointment of Ms. Alva L. Smith,
who resides at 5540 Delmar #101, 63112, and
whose term will expire on December 31, 2008.
She will fill an expansion slot.

May I ask for your Honorable Boards’
favorable consideration of these
appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
Alderman Carter
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Gregali moved to approve the
appointment of the following individuals to
the Community Mental Health Fund: Leon
Ashford, Mary Lou Calzaretta, Ruby Jones,
Philip Minden, Stephen F. Doss, Caroline
Korybut, Nina R. North Murphy and Alva L.
Smith.

Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways
and Means submitted the following report
which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 73
An ordinance to provide for the
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the
collection of tax payments levied by the City
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending
December 31, 2005, and remaining uncollected
and other revenues remaining to be collected
and deposited in the General Revenue Fund
for fiscal year ending June 30, 2006, all such
revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the
treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,
Missouri of its tax and revenue anticipation
notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement
if necessary in order to lower the cost of such
borrowing; prescribing the form and details of
such notes; authorizing and approving certain
documents and other actions; and containing
an emergency clause.
Alderman Conway
Chairman of the Committee
Ms. Young of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 62
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the issuance by the City of St.
Louis, Missouri of its Airport Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2005, Lambert-St.
Louis International Airport, in one or more
series in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed two hundred sixty-five million dollars
($265,000,000), to effect the refunding of a
portion of the City’s outstanding airport

revenue bonds; providing for the establishment
of a debt service stabilization fund; providing
for the funding of any required reserve funds
and for the payment of certain costs of
issuance; setting forth certain terms and
conditions for the issuance of such bonds;
appointing a trustee, a bond registrar and a
paying agent in connection with such bonds;
appointing an escrow agent in connection with
the refunding of the refunded bonds;
approving the form and authorizing the
execution and delivery of the thirteenth
supplemental indenture of trust with respect
to the issuance of such bonds and certain
amendments to the existing General Airport
Revenue Bond Indenture; authorizing the
negotiated sale of the bonds and the execution
and delivery of a bond purchase agreement;
authorizing the preparation, execution and
distribution of the preliminary official
statement and the preparation, execution and
delivery of the continuing disclosure
agreement, the escrow agreement and other
matters with respect thereto; authorizing the
negotiation and purchase of credit
enhancement, if any, and credit facilities or
sureties for any required reserve funds, if any,
and the approval and execution of documents
necessary to comply with the duties of the
City under any agreement for credit
enhancement, if any, and a credit facility for
any required reserve funds; authorizing an
interest rate exchange agreement; authorizing
the issuance of all or a portion of the Series
2005 Refunding Bonds as bonds bearing
interest at variable rates, if any, and providing
for a liquidity facility and other related
documents, if any, for such variable rate bonds;
authorizing the proper officials, agents and
employee of the city to execute such
documents and to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate; repealing ordinances
of the City to the extent inconsistent with the
terms hereof; and containing severability
clauses.

Board Bill No. 66
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing a “Fifth Supplemental
Appropriation” in an aggregate amount not to
exceed Forty Million Six Hundred Seventy
Five Thousand Dollars ($40,675,000) from
appropriately designated “Series __
Commercial Paper Construction Account” of
the “Commercial Paper Construction Fund”
established under the Commercial Paper
Subordinate Indenture of Trust dated May 1,
2004 and authorized pursuant to Ordinance
66232 approved March 30, 2004 (the “CP
Note Ordinance 66232”), into the W-1W
Expansion Program Ordinance 64279
approved March 9, 1998, as amended by

Ordinance 64598 approved February 18,
1999, Ordinance 65149 approved February
8, 2001, Ordinance 65501 approved May 14,
2002, and Ordinance 66489 approved
November 17, 2004, which authorized and
established a multi-year public work and
improvement program (the “W-1W Expansion
Program”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport ® that is more fully described in
Section One of Ordinance 64279 as amended,
in order to continue the W-1W Expansion
Program and the payment or reimbursement
of eligible W-1W Expansion Program costs
authorized therein; authorizing and directing
the Mayor, Comptroller, Treasurer, City
Counselor, Register of St. Louis, and/or other
appropriate City officials as necessary to
make such applications or certifications and
provide such data to the Note Trustee, Note
Registrar, and/or Payment Agent for the
“Commercial Paper Notes” (as defined and
authorized under the CP Note Ordinance
66232), and to take whatever action necessary
in order to provide for the payment or
reimbursement of eligible W-1W Expansion
Program costs authorized therein; conditioning
the appropriation from the Commercial Paper
Construction Fund and the expenditure or
reimbursement of funds authorized herein on
the issuance in one or more series of
Commercial Paper Notes; containing a
severability clause; and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 67

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City the
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport
Automatic Teller Machine (“ATM”)
Concession Agreements between the City and
the following concessionaires: a) Commerce
Bank, b) Union Planters Bank, c) Bank of
America, and d) UMB Bank, granting to each
concessionaire the right, license, and privilege
to operate, manage and maintain a nonexclusive ATM concession at the Airport
subject to the terms, covenants, and conditions
of their ATM concession agreement with the
City, all of which were approved in substance
by the Airport Commission and are more fully
described in Section One of this Ordinance;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.
Alderwoman Young
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 57
An ordinance repealing Section
17.32.070 of Section One of Ordinance 57831
pertaining to headlights on motor vehicles and
adding a new section pertaining to the same
subject matter, containing a penalty clause and
an emergency clause. BB 58 Jeffrey Boyd An
ordinance approving a Redevelopment Plan
for the 1423-43 Hodiamont Avenue & 6113
Ridge Avenue Area (“Area”) after finding that
the Area is blighted as defined in Section
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
2000, as amended, (the “Statute” being
Sections 99.300 to 99.715 inclusive),
containing a description of the boundaries of
said Area in the City of St. Louis (“City”),
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit “A”, finding that redevelopment and
rehabilitation of the Area is in the interest of
the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the people of the City; approving
the Plan, dated February 22, 2005, for the
Area (“Plan”), incorporated herein by attached
Exhibit “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430;
finding that there is a feasible financial plan
for the development of the Area which affords
maximum opportunity for development of the
Area by private enterprise; finding that no
property in the Area may be acquired by the
Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority
of the City of St. Louis (“LCRA”) through
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that
the property within the Area is unoccupied;
but if it should become occupied, the
Redeveloper shall be responsible for relocating
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
ten (10) year real estate tax abatement; and
pledging cooperation of the Board of
Aldermen and requesting various officials,
departments, boards and agencies of the City
to cooperate and to exercise their respective
powers in a manner consistent with the Plan.

Board Bill No. 76
An ordinance recommended by the
Parking Commission making appropriation for
payment of the operating expenses, capital
equipment and improvement expenses,
including lease purchase agreements involving
Parking Division assets, and debt service

expenses of the Parking Division of the
Treasurer’s Office, Kiel Parking Facilities,
Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau Parking
Facility, Williams Paper Parking Facility, and
the Central Downtown Parking Facility for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005 and
ending June 30, 2006, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of Twelve Million, Three
Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand, Six Hundred
Sixty Six Dollars ($12,367,666) and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 79
An ordinance amending Section One of
Ordinance 66599 pertaining to the closing of
Raymond Avenue by moving the location of
the closing to the east curbline of the
Hodiamont Right of Way and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 80
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic on Etzel Avenue by blocking said traffic
flow at the west curb line of Blackstone
Avenue and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 86
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Streets to temporarily close,
barricade or otherwise impede the flow of
traffic on various streets within the Third
Ward, and containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Public Safety submitted the following report
which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Public Safety to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 8
An ordinance amending Section One of
Ordinance 65800 pertaining to Neighborhood
Orders of Protection within the City of St.
Louis by amending the definition of a
Neighborhood Order of Protection to include
any court order that prohibits a person from
being in any specified area as a condition of
release from custody, a condition of probation,
parole, or other supervision or any court order
in a criminal matter; containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 78

An ordinance pertaining to motor
vehicles; prohibiting any person who is
responsible for a child ten (10) years of age or
younger from leaving such child in a motor
vehicle without being supervised in the motor
vehicle by a person who is at least fourteen
(14) years of age; containing definitions and
an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF SPECIAL
COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Roddy moved for perfection of
Board Bills No. 59, 72 and 75.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote

BOARD BILLS
FOR PERFECTION

President Shrewsbury moved that Board
Bill No. 16 before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Ortmann moved that Board Bill No.
24 (Floor Substitute) before the Board for
perfection, be perfected as reported out of
Committee with its recommendation “Do
Pass”.
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Conway moved that Board Bill No.
60 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Ms. Florida
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Schmid moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of moving the following Board
Bills to the third reading calendar for final
passage: Board Bills No. 59, 72, 75, 60 and
16.
Seconded by Mr. Gregali.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Flowers, Ford-Griffin, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,
Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Bauer,
Kirner, Williamson, Krewson and Mr.

President Shrewsbury. 22
Noes: 0
Present: 0

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Roddy moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bills No. 59, 72, 75, 60
and 16.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Flowers, Ford-Griffin, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,
Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
McMillan, Schmid, Jones-King, Boyd, Bauer,
Kirner, Williamson, Krewson and Mr.
President Shrewsbury. 22
Noes: 0
Present: 0

Board Bill No. 59
An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non_licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Twentieth Ward Liquor
Control District, as established herein, for a
period of three years from the effective date
hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non_licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 72
An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Public Safety, on behalf of the
City of St. Louis, to enter into and execute a
Grant Agreement with the Missouri
Emergency
Management
Agency,
appropriating said funds and authorizing the
Director of Public Safety, upon approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to
expend funds by entering into contracts or
otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 75
An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Fire Chief, on behalf of the City of St.
Louis, to enter into and execute a Grant
Agreement with the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security, appropriating said funds
and authorizing the Fire Chief, upon approval
of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
to expend funds by entering into contracts or
otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 60
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the issuance and delivery of not
to exceed $50,000,00 principal amount of
Public Safety General Obligation Refunding
Bonds, Series 2005, of the City of St. Louis,
Missouri, to effect the refunding of all or a
portion of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
Public Safety Obligation Bonds, Series 1999
(Referred to as the “Refunded Bonds”) and
paying the costs of issuance of the bonds;
setting forth certain terms and conditions for
the issuance of such bonds; prescribing the
form and details of the bonds; appointing a
paying agent and bond registrar in connection
with such bonds; appointing an escrow agent
in connection with the refunding of the
refunded bonds, authorizing the negotiated sale
of the bonds and the execution and delivery of
a bond purchase agreement; authorizing the
preparation, execution and delivery of the
continuing disclosure agreement, the escrow
agreement, and other matters with respect
thereto; authorizing the negotiation and
purchase of bond insurance, if any, and the
approval and execution of necessary to
comply with the duties of the City under any
agreement for bond insurance; and providing
for the levy and collection of an annual tax for
the purpose of paying the principal of and
interest on the bonds as they become due;
authorizing the proper officials, agents and
employees of the City to execute such
documents and to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate; repealing ordinances
of the City to the extent inconsistent with the
terms of this ordinance; and containing
severability and emergency clauses.

Board Bill No. 16
An ordinance adopted pursuant to
Section 105.483 (11) RSMo., reaffirming the
provisions of Ordinance 62391 establishing a
policy for the disclosure of potential conflicts
of interest and substantial interests for certain
municipal officials, and containing an
emergency clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE OF
BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen
The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the

following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 63

An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Health Commissioner, on behalf of the
City of St. Louis, to enter into and execute a
Grant Agreement with the Missouri
Foundation for Health, appropriating said
funds and authorizing the Health
Commissioner, upon approval of the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment, to expend
funds by entering into contracts or otherwise
for grant purposes and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 59

An ordinance prohibiting the issuance
of any package or drink liquor licenses for
any currently non-licensed premises within
the boundaries of the Twentieth Ward Liquor
Control District, as established herein, for a
period of three years from the effective date
hereof; containing an exception allowing,
during the moratorium period, for the transfer
of existing licenses, under certain
circumstances, and the issuance of a drink
license to persons operating a restaurant at a
previously non-licensed premises; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 72

An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Public Safety, on behalf of the
City of St. Louis, to enter into and execute a
Grant Agreement with the Missouri
Emergency
Management
Agency,
appropriating said funds and authorizing the
Director of Public Safety, upon approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to
expend funds by entering into contracts or
otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 75

An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Fire Chief, on behalf of the City of St.
Louis, to enter into and execute a Grant
Agreement with the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security, appropriating said funds
and authorizing the Fire Chief, upon approval
of the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
to expend funds by entering into contracts or
otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 60

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the issuance and delivery of not
to exceed $50,000,00 principal amount of
Public Safety General Obligation Refunding
Bonds, Series 2005, of the City of St. Louis,
Missouri, to effect the refunding of all or a

portion of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
Public Safety Obligation Bonds, Series 1999
(Referred to as the “Refunded Bonds”) and
paying the costs of issuance of the bonds;
setting forth certain terms and conditions for
the issuance of such bonds; prescribing the
form and details of the bonds; appointing a
paying agent and bond registrar in connection
with such bonds; appointing an escrow agent
in connection with the refunding of the
refunded bonds, authorizing the negotiated sale
of the bonds and the execution and delivery of
a bond purchase agreement; authorizing the
preparation, execution and delivery of the
continuing disclosure agreement, the escrow
agreement, and other matters with respect
thereto; authorizing the negotiation and
purchase of bond insurance, if any, and the
approval and execution of necessary to
comply with the duties of the City under any
agreement for bond insurance; and providing
for the levy and collection of an annual tax for
the purpose of paying the principal of and
interest on the bonds as they become due;
authorizing the proper officials, agents and
employees of the City to execute such
documents and to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate; repealing ordinances
of the City to the extent inconsistent with the
terms of this ordinance; and containing
severability and emergency clauses.

Board Bill No. 16
An ordinance adopted pursuant to
Section 105.483 (11) RSMo., reaffirming the
provisions of Ordinance 62391 establishing a
policy for the disclosure of potential conflicts
of interest and substantial interests for certain
municipal officials, and containing an
emergency clause.
Alderman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee
Board Bills Numbered 59, 72, 75, 60, 16
and 63 were read and all other business being
suspended, Mr. Shrewsbury, in the presence
of the Board and in open session, affixed his
signature in accordance with the provisions
of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. President Shrewsbury introduced
Resolution Nos. 26-39 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 26
WHEREAS,, we have been apprised
that on Saturday, May 14, 2005, Sandi Colquitt
will receive her Bachelor of Business
Administration Degree from Fontbonne
University OPTIONS; and

WHEREAS,, this long anticipated event
is being made more memorable by the fact

that Sandi will share her graduation day with
her son, Derrick, who is receiving his
Bachelor’s Degree in Mass Communications
from Lindenwood University; and
WHEREAS,, through a special
arrangement between the two schools, Sandi
and Derrick will receive their degrees at that
same time during the Lindenwood University
commencement ceremony; and
WHEREAS,, Sandi currently serves as
the Deputy Director for Reach St. Louis, the
Regional Education Advocacy Coalition on
HIV and Aids and is planning to continue her
many efforts on behalf of this worthy cause
now that she has received her Bachelor’s
Degree; and
WHEREAS,, Sandi is also the Third
Ward Councilwoman for University City and
is a member of the National League of Cities,
the Missouri Municipal League and the
Congressional Black Caucus Constituency
Group; and
WHEREAS,, Sandi is an outstanding
member of this community who is an
inspiration to all who know her and her
wonderful family;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Sandi Colquitt and
her son Derrick on the occasion of their
graduation from college and we thank Sandi
for her many contributions to the citizens of
this community and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy for presentation to our honorees at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward

Resolution No. 27
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
the residents of the Dogtown Neighborhood
have elected Margaret Jacob, as the “Mayor
of Dogtown” for 2005; and
WHEREAS, Margaret has been an
upstanding citizen of Dogtown for 43 years
and is a founding member of the ClaytonTamm Community Association and has served
as Assistant Secretary for the organization;
and
WHEREAS, Margaret is a faithful
member of St. James the Greater Church and
actively involved the Queen of Rosary Sodality
and has devoted countless hours to St. James
Parish families; and

WHEREAS, Margaret has consistently
answered the call to serve others and promote
the growth and stabilization of the Dogtown
Neighborhood and the City of St. Louis; and

WHEREAS, Margaret is an exceptional
member of our community whose service to
the residents of the Dogtown Neighborhood
and to all of our citizens is greatly appreciated;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we congratulate
Margaret Jacob, the newly elected Mayor of
Dogtown, and we thank her for her many
hours of tireless work directed toward the
betterment of this City and we further join
with the residents of Dogtown in wishing
Mayor Hefele a successful term of office, and
we direct the Clerk of the Board to spread a
copy of this Resolution across the minutes of
this proceeding and to prepare a
commemorative copy to be presented to our
honoree at a time and place deemed appropriate
by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Thomas Bauer, Alderman 24th Ward

Resolution No. 28

WHEREAS, Delta Sigma Theta
Sorority, inc. was founded on January 13,
1913, by twenty-two collegiate woman at
Howard University; and

WHEREAS, originally chartered as
Lambda Sigma, the Saint Louis Alumnae
Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta has been
committed to public service in St. Louis for
77 years; and

WHEREAS, the first public act
performed by the Delta founders involved
their participation in the historic women’s
suffrage march in Washington, D.C., March
1913; and

WHEREAS, every Delta uses her
influence for the enactment of laws to protect
the unfortunate and for the repeal of those
laws which deprive human beings of their
privileges and rights; and

WHEREAS, Delta is increasingly
involved in important local and global issues
and recently received special consultative
status with the United Nations; and

WHEREAS, on Friday, May 20, 2005,
Deltas from throughout the St. Louis
metropolitan area will gather at St. Louis City
Hall to celebrate the 3rd Annual Delta Day in
the City of St. Louis;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our

deliberations to recognize and honor the
members of the St. Louis Chapter of Delta
Sigma Theta Sorority and we thank them for
their tireless efforts on behalf of the citizens
of this community and we direct the Clerk of
this Board to prepare a commemorative copy
of this Resolution to the end that it may be
presented to our honorees at a time and place
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 29
WHEREAS, in 1904, a need arose for a
school to be erected in this community and
the Cote Brilliante Elementary School was
established at 2616 Cora Avenue; and
WHEREAS, on Sunday, May 22, 2005,
the Cote Brilliante Elementary School will
celebrate one hundred years of service to its
community, the St. Louis Board of Education,
and the City of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, the education of children
is universally recognized as one of the most
important duties of any society; and
WHEREAS, through the years, Cote
Brilliante School has been a stabilizing force
for the provision of excellent educational
achievement by the hundreds of committed
and energetic men and women who dedicated
themselves to the task of educating the children
enrolled in Cote Brilliante School; and
WHEREAS, the thousands of eager and
conscientious students who, during their
formative years, received a quality education
at Cote Brilliante School, have gone on to
become productive citizens of this community,
city, state and country; and
WHEREAS, the effective educators of
Cote Brilliante School not only taught the basic
skills of reading, writing, and arithmetic, but
also addressed the issues of social
responsibility and character; and
WHEREAS, in recognition and in
appreciation for Cote Brilliante School’s many
years of service and commitment to the living
and deceased students, staff, parents, and
community members;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to commend and thank all
stakeholders of Cote Brilliante School for their
outstanding contribution to this community
and we further direct the Clerk of this Board
to spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and

place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable James F. Shrewsbury, President of the Board
ofAldermen

Resolution No. 30
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
on May 22, 2005, Bishop R. J. Ward, Pastor
of Kennerly Temple Church of God, will be
honored during the Church’s 96 th Holy
Convocation; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Ward received his
call to ministry on July 15, 1950, and served
as Assistant Pastor to Elder F. J. Hayden at
Kennerly Temple Church of God in Christ
until 1961; and
WHEREAS, in 1961 Bishop Ward
founded St. Paul Church of God in Christ and
continued there in service until 1965 when he
was appointed Pastor of Kennerly Temple
Church of God in Christ; and
WHEREAS, in addition to his pastoral
duties, Bishop Ward has served as a member
of the Board of Commission for Missouri State
Welfare; as a member of the Executive Board
of Eastern Missouri and Western Illinois, First
Jurisdiction and as Jurisdictional Prelate of
Eastern Missouri, First Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Ward has been
sustained throughout his ministry by the love
and support of his family and many friends
and admirers; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Ward is an
exceptional member of our community whose
service to his congregation and to all of our
citizens is greatly appreciated;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor Bishop
R. J. Ward for his 40 years of service as Pastor
of Kennerly Temple Church of God in Christ
and we thank him for his outstanding service
to our community and we further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 31
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to note the untimely passing of
long time St. Louis City resident, Mollie
Louise Bell-Moore, on May 13, 2005; and

WHEREAS, Mollie was born and raised
in Sweet Springs, Missouri, one of five children
born to the union of Eli Bell and Lillian HaynesBell; and

WHEREAS, on September 26, 1936,
Mollie married the love of her life, Virtis
Lawrence Moore, who she had first met many
years before while attending Lincoln
University College in Jefferson City, and they
were blessed during their life together with
two children Virtis and Margaret and a host of
grandchildren and great-grandchildren; and

WHEREAS, Mollie was a distinguished
graduate of Stowes Teachers College and
received her Masters in Special Education
from St. Louis University; and

WHEREAS, for more than 25 years
Mollie taught in the St. Louis Public School
System and was highly regarded for her
dedication to academic excellence and tireless
commitment to the educational and social
development of her students; and

WHEREAS, Mollie will be greatly
missed by her children, Virtis and Margaret;
her grandchildren and great-grandchildren; her
family and her countless friends and admirers;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that, on behalf of the St.
Louis community, we pause to remember the
joyful life of Mollie Louise Bell-Moore and
we join with her many friends in expressing
our sorrow at her passing, and we further direct
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of
this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a memorial copy
for presentation to the Moore family, at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Terry Kennedy, Alderman 18th Ward

Resolution No. 32

WHEREAS,, in January, 1949, under the
inspired leadership of the late Elder Frank J.
Hayden, Kennerly Temple Church of God in
Christ became the first African American
church in the country to broadcast religious
programming live on the radio; and

WHEREAS,, the “Gospel Hour of
Deliverance and Truth” program, which has
always aired live from the Church auditorium,
has two purposes: to preach the true Gospel
of Jesus Christ to the listening audience and
to provide uplifting and inspirational music;
and

WHEREAS,, beginning in 1965, under
the spiritual direction of current Pastor,
Bishop R.J. Ward, Kennerly Temple Church

of God in Christ became the sole sponsor of
the weekly broadcast which has expanded over
the last forty years to its present sixty minute
format presented on radio station WGNU,
920AM; and

WHEREAS,, throughout the years the
program has benefitted from the contributions
of talented individuals, including Coretha Bell,
Margie Bell Scott, Thelma Waters Wrice, Sarah
Staton, Ivy Lee Reddick, Sister Vera Boykins
and Elder Robert V. Woodie who has served
as Minister of Music for more than 48 years;
and

WHEREAS,, for almost six decades the
“Gospel Hour of Deliverance and Truth” has
inspired, enlightened and delivered countless
lives throughout the St. Louis region; and

WHEREAS,, on Sunday, May 29, 2005,
Kennerly Temple Church of God in Christ,
Bishop Ward and the Radio Mass Choir will
be honored for 56 years of continuous radio
programming in the name of Jesus Christ;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor Bishop
R. J. Ward and the men and women of Kennerly
Temple Church of God in Christ for 56
continuous years of musical ministry and a
legacy of inspirational preaching and witness
to Jesus Christ and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy for presentation to our honoree at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Michael McMillan, Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 33
WHEREAS,, we have been apprised
that on May 21, 2005, Katie Maninger will
be recognized and honored for 24 years of
outstanding service to the families of St. Mary
Magdalen Grade School; and
WHEREAS,, Katie is a distinguished
graduate of Kansas State University in
Manhattan, Kansas and is a life-time certified
teacher for grades K thru 8 in both Missouri
and Kansas; and

WHEREAS,, prior to beginning her
teaching career at St. Mary Magdalen, Katie
taught pre-school and kindergarten at Woerner
and Gardenville Schools in the City of St.
Louis Public School System and kindergarten
at St. Stephen Protomartyr Grade School; and

WHEREAS,, in 1982, Katie was hired
by then Pastor, Monsignor Louis Meyer and
Principal Dr. Pat Hensley to serve as

kindergarten teacher at St. Mary Magdelen;
and
WHEREAS,, Katie has been supported
throughout her career by her children, Jenifer,
Kyle and Sarah and her many friends and
admirers in the St. Mary Madalen School
community; and
WHEREAS,, Katie is an outstanding
member of this community and we thank her
for her commitment to academic excellence
and her dedication to the children in the City
of St. Louis;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Katie Maninger and
to thank her for 24 years of service at St.
Mary Magdalen Catholic Grade School and
we wish her continued success in her teaching
career and we further direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy for
presentation to our honoree at a time and place
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Stephen Gregali, Alderman 14th Ward

Resolution No. 34
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Reverend Cleo King
who has served as Pastor and Pastor Emeritus
for Siloam Missionary Baptist Church in the
City of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, Reverend King was born
and raised in West Point, Mississippi, and
moved to St. Louis in 1952 after his honorable
discharge from the United States Army; and
WHEREAS, Reverend King attended
Central Baptist Branch Bible School and
Western Bible College and was ordained to
the ministry in 1977; and
WHEREAS, on October 12, 1980
Reverend King and a small group of Spirit
filled individuals seeking spiritual leadership
and guidance came together at Reverend King’s
home and founded Siloam Missionary Baptist
Church; and
WHEREAS, Reverend King has been
sustained throughout his ministry by the love
and support of his family and many friends
and admirers; and
WHEREAS, Reverend King is an
exceptional member of our community whose
service to his congregation and to all of our
citizens is greatly appreciated;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of

the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor Reverend
Cleo King, Pastor Emeritus of Siloam
Missionary Baptist Church and we thank him
for his outstanding service to our community
and we further direct the Clerk of this Board
to spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of May 2005 by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd, Alderman 22nd Ward

Resolution No. 35

WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
after more than 37 years of dedicated service
to the St. Louis Public School System, Faye
Ferguson has announced her retirement; and

WHEREAS, Faye was born and raised
in St. Louis, one of three daughters born to
Mary Lou and Thomas Stokes and is a
distinguished graduate of Sumner High School,
Stowe Teacher’s College and Southern Illinois
University; and

WHEREAS, Faye began her career in
education in 1968 and has served as a Speech
and Language Teacher and Therapist in 69
different schools within the St. Louis Public
School System; and

WHEREAS, this recognition is in
appreciation for her many years of service
and commitment to the students and staff of
the St. Louis Public School System; and

WHEREAS, Faye is an exceptional
member of our community whose service to
our children and to all of our citizens is greatly
appreciated; and

WHEREAS, we are certain that Faye is
looking forward to a well deserved retirement
with her husband, Lawrence; her son,
Christopher and her family and many friends
who will honor her at a retirement reception
on May 21, 2005;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Faye Ferguson
for 37 years of service to this community as
an educator in the St. Louis Public School
System and we wish her peace and happiness
in her retirement and we direct the Clerk of
this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to further prepare a commemorative copy to
the end that it may be presented to our honoree
at a time and place deemed appropriate by
the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:

Honorable Gregory J. Carter, Alderman 27th Ward

Resolution No. 36

WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
Lawrence Marcellus Wooten was born on
September 10, 1940, in the City of Saint Louis;
and

WHEREAS, Lawrence Wooten was
saved at the age of 15 and ordained as an Elder
at Williams Temple Church of God In Christ
in 1965; and

WHEREAS, in 1972 he received his
Master’s Degree from Saint Louis University
and his Doctorate in 1979 and spent over
thirty (30) years in the St. Louis City Public
School System, as both a teacher and an
administrator; and

WHEREAS, in 1979, he was appointed
as the Pastor of Williams Temple Church of
God In Christ, upon the demise of the former
Pastor, a man whom he had served faithfully;
and

WHEREAS, in 2000, he was appointed
as the Ecclesiastical Prelate of the Eastern
Missouri/Western Illinois jurisdiction of the
Church of God In Christ; with the
responsibility to oversee approximately
thirty-five (35) Pastors; and

WHEREAS, in 2005, he was appointed
by the International Church of God In Christ;
as the Regional Bishop to the jurisdictions
within Iowa and Missouri, with the
responsibility of providing oversight for five
(5) Ecclesiastical Prelates and their respective
congregations; and

WHEREAS, Bishop Wooten has been
an active member of this community, serving
as a member of the St. Louis Black Caucus,
Chaplain to the 7th District Police
Department, a member of the Board of
Directors of the Father’s Support Group and
dedicating countless hours to numerous
community improvement projects including
the Neighborhood Outreach Center which he
established; and

WHEREAS, Bishop Wooten is a valued,
dedicated and well regarded member of our
community, whose service to his family,
congregation, jurisdiction and to all citizens is
greatly appreciated;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Alderman of
the City of Saint Louis that we cheerfully
pause in our deliberations to recognize and
honor Bishop Lawrence M. Wooten and thank
him for his outstanding service to the
community and we further direct the Clerk of
this Board to prepare a commemorative copy
of this Resolution to the end that it may be
presented to our honoree at a time and place

deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 20th day of May, 2005 by:
Honorable Frank Williamson, Alderman 26th Ward
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution Nos. 26-39 stood
considered.
President Shrewsbury moved that
Resolution Nos. 26-39 be adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
Mr. Ortmann of the Committee on Rules
and Resolutions submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 20, 2005.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Rules and
Resolutions to whom was referred the
following Resolution, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Resolution No. 7
WHEREAS, the Honorable Board of
Aldermen of the City of St. Louis has been
apprised that the Tigraian-Ethiopian
Association of Missouri has established a
committee to link St. Louis, Missouri with
the City of Mekelle in the State of Tigrai,
Ethiopia, as Sister City affiliates; and
WHEREAS, Mekelle is one of the most
ancient cities of Ethiopia and for many years
was the capital of the Ethiopian Empire and
the State of Tigray in which Mekelle rests
offers impressive remains of the two-thousand
year old Aksumite civilization, awe-inspiring
medieval rock-cut churches, unique indigenous
architecture, beautiful mountain scenery and
friendly people; and
WHEREAS, The area upon which the
City of St. Louis was founded was once itself
a civilization of the ancient world populated
by the native people called the Cahokia and
like Mekelle was once a major cultural,
educational and commercial center whose
civilization included similar structures as
those in Mekelle with no other area more
densely populated in the Americas other than
the ancient civilizations of Mexico whom the
Cahokia rivaled, and

WHEREAS, According to recent
historical findings ancient civilizations in the
Americas such as the Cahokia were once
visited and influenced by African explores and
traders from Ethiopia, Nupe and ancient
Ghana centuries before Columbus, and

WHEREAS, because of these historical
connections the effort to create a sister city
affiliation between the City of St. Louis and
the City of Mekelle is being encouraged by
individuals in the City of St. Louis and by the
Tigraian-Ethiopian Association of Missouri
which has promoted a cultural, education and
tourism exchange for several years; and

WHEREAS, the City of Mekelle has a
population in excess of 150,000 citizens and
is one of the most important urban centers in
the country; and

WHEREAS, the City of Mekelle is
highly regarded in Ethiopia for its commitment
to education and the city boasts an
exceptionally high literacy rate among its
citizens; and

WHEREAS, many citizens of St. Louis
Missouri stand firmly behind the
establishment of the sister city affiliation and
pledge to support it through commerce,
education, culture and sports; and

WHEREAS, the sister city affiliation
commonly make cultural educational and
entertainment exchanges designed to enhance
our international relations and our cultural and
ethnic understanding;

NOW THEREFORE LET IT BE
RESOLVED that this Honorable Board of
Aldermen of the City of St. Louis proudly
and enthusiastically supports the affiliation
of St. Louis, Missouri and the City of Mekelle
in the State of Tigrai, Ethiopia as it has been
made aware of the benefits and responsibilities
of such an affiliation and instruct the Clerk of
this Board to prepare a fitting copy of said
resolution so it may be presented to those
deemed appropriate by its sponsor.

Introduced this the 29th day of April, 2005
by:
Honorable Terry Kennedy, Alderman18th Ward
Alderman Ortmann
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Kennedy moved to adopt
Resolution No. 7
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Roddy moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Troupe, Mr. Reed, Mr. Wessels,
Ms. Hanrahan and Mr. Carter.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Roddy moved to adjourn under rules
to return Thursday, May 26, 2005.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Patrick J. Connaghan, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO – May 24, 2005
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Visintainer, Siedhoff,
Simon and President Melton
Absent: Directors Suelmann, Bess and
Moore. (excused)
Requests of the Director of Streets
designating Mr. Tom Gerrein to act in his
behalf; Director of Parks, Recreation and
Forestry designating Ms. Karen Pecaut to act
in his behalf; Director of Health and Hospitals
to be excused from the Regular Meeting of
May 24, 2005, and; Director of Public Safety
to be excused from the Regular Meeting of
May 31, 2005 were received and leaves of
absence granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May
17, 2005 were unanimously approved.
The following documents were referred
by the Secretary:

May 20, 2005
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets:106625, MWH Americas, Inc., amend
name on permit (formerly Shaw
Environmental & Infrastructure), and amend
from 2 to installation of one groundwater
monitoring well and one soil boring as shown
on figure A of prints at 2110 Chouteau.
To the Director of Streets:110012,
Laclede Mews Condominium Assoc., encroach
(replace wall) with a retaining wall at #10 and

#18 N. Taylor.
To the Directors of Streets and Health
and Hospitals:110013, Central West End
Business Association, hold event on June 1112, 2005 on Euclid/Mc Pherson/ Maryland/
Argyle/Walton Row.
To the Directors of Health and Hospitals
and Public Safety:110014, Teach Me Kidz
Academy, operate day care at 3113 Rutger,
110015, Successful Children’s Academy,
conduct day care center at 5572 Natural
Bridge, 110016, Kingdom House Day Care,
conduct daycare at 1321 S. 11th.

May 21, 2005
To the Directors of Streets and Health
and Hospitals:110017, Bevo Corporation,
hold Bosnian festival May 29, 2005 in the
5000 block of Morganford (street will be closed
from Gravois to Walsh).

May 23, 2005
To the President and Directors of Public
Utilities and Streets: 110025, Garden District
Commission, construct cul-de-sac at McRee,
Thurman and Blaine, Thurman, 110026,
Pyramid Construction, street and alley
dedication plat at 14th, Chouteau, Tucker, Park
in C.B. 475.
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Streets:110027, Union Electric Company
d/b/a AmerenUE, set pole on south side of
alley west of Boyle and one pole on north
side of Duncan west of Boyle at 4320 Forest
Park Parkway, 110028, Union Electric
Company d/b/a AmerenUE, set stub pole on
3/8" down guy on east side of Washington
just south of St. Anthony at 1760 Washington.

May 24, 2005
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety:110029, Civil Design Inc.,
dedication plat surrounding Park, 18th,
McNulty in C.B. 1809.
To the Directors of Public Utilities and
Public Safety:110030, McBride & Son Homes
of St. Louis LLC, to subdivide lots D and E of
Botanical Heights Plat 2 in C.B. 4961, Folsom/
Lawrence/39th.

LETTINGS
Three sealed proposals for the public
work advertised under Letting No. 8277 2005 Concourse “A” and Concourse “E”
Security Screening Checkpoints at Lambert
were received, publicly opened, read and
referred to the President.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and Board set date
of June 28, 2005 for opening bids for work
and Secretary instructed to insert the proper
advertisement therefore:

Letting No. 8279 - Taxiway N,
Northwest Apron and Concourse C Apron
Reconstruction at Lambert

Letting No. 8280 - Residential Sound
Insulation Program Part XXXII at Lambert

Letting No. 8281 - Concrete and Brick
Removal/Replacement and Complete
Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP64(FYO6-CIP).

Preliminary approval ordered given and
10 days granted in which to sign same:

Letting No. 8274 _ Forest Park Parkway,
DeBaliviere to Kingshighway, Gaines
Construction, Inc., 329 Josephville Road,
Wentzville, MO 63385, Amount:
$2,603,400.18

Proposed contract and bond ordered
approved as follows:

Letting No. 8267 - Residential Sound
Insulation Program Part XXX at Lambert,
Turner-Bailey, Inc., Contract No. 19625.

Board declared as emergencies the
following: Series No. 45 Residential
Demolition at Lambert, 2005 Rehabilitation
of the Parking Lot at Hunter and Natural
Bridge at Lambert, 2005 Structure Removal/
Foundation Backfill at Lambert.

PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS

Permits ordered approved as follows,
subject to certain conditions:109989, Lafayette
Square Plaza, public improvements on Vail
Place at Park in C.B. 1809,109990, Park Ridge
Estates, construct streets at 5700 Arsenal and
3181 Jasper Park in C.B. 5616 and 5615.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY

4 subdivisions ordered approved as
follows, subject to certain conditions:109948,
Brian Yount, C.B. 1974 at 3012-14 Lemp,
109861, John Zajac, C.B. 4936 at 4269-71
Russell, 109949, Makkar Properties, LLC,
C.B. 3839 at 1423 and 1445 Hodiamont,
109732, R.S.A., C.B. 2111 AT 3636-38
Shenandoah.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

Application No. 109993, BHAT
Development, encroach with doors for
emergency existing of building at 1017
Washington ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions.

Action of the Director in issuing permits
for sidewalks, merchandise and sundry permits
for the months of February, March and April
2005 approved.

DIRECTORS OF STREETS
AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
Application No. 110017, Bevo Area
Community Corp., hold “Bevo Bosnian
Festival” at 5000 Morganford (closing Gravois
to Walsh), May 29, 2005 ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF STREETS AND
PUBLIC SAFETY
Application No. 110005, The 5700
Property LLC, name four streets in the Park
Ridge Estates subdivision as Park Ridge Way,
Park Ridge Lane, Garden Hill Lane and Vera
Court ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

DIRECTOR OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY
Application No. 110031, St. Louis
Convention and Visitor’s Commission, allow
Fostaire Helicopter to land a helicopter in
Forest Park at Cricket Field at approximately
4:30 p.m. on May 25, 2005 ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY
AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
2 permits for events ordered approved
as
follows,
subject
to
certain
conditions:109947, African Heritage
Association of St. Louis, May 28_30, 2005
in Forest Park, 109848, Ivory Perry Park
Concert Organizers, June 26, July 24, and
August 28, 2005 in Ivory Perry Park.

DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY

7 day care centers ordered approved as
follows:109651, Nestle Purina Child
Development Center, 1000 S. 9th, 109737,
Solomon’s Temple, 3000 Prairie, 109929,
Kennerly Temple Child Development Center,
4259 Kennerly, 109688, Circle of Lights, 8757
Annetta, 109387, West End Child
Development Center, 5935 Horton, 109933,
Helping Hand Day Care Center, 2037 East
Fair, 109685, Urban League 911 Day Care
Center, 911 N. Spring.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY
7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved, as submitted by the Hearing
Officer, per Board Order No. 766.
The following documents were not listed
on the posted Agenda:268093-94, 268105,
268108-117.
Adjourned to meet Tuesday, May 31,

2005 at 1:45 P.M.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

REQUEST FOR

PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE
The City of St. Louis invites interested
firms to submit Proposals for PROVISION
OF OFFICE SPACE FOR THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS, DEPARTMENT OF
HUMAN SERVICES, and, as an option CITY
COURTS.
The Request for Qualifications package
may be obtained from BPS website under
Contracts & Bids, Professional Services; by
picking the RFQ up at Board of Public Service,
1200 Market Street, Room 301 City Hall,
St. Louis, MO 63103; or by calling Bette
Behan at 314-589-6214 during the hours of
8am-5pm commencing Monday, May 9, 2005.
A pre-proposal conference is scheduled
for Wednesday, May 18, 2005 at 10:00 a.m.
in Room 208 City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, MO 63103.
The City of St. Louis has established
M/WBE participation goals of 25% and 5%,
respectively, for this project.
Proposals will be received no later than
4:30 p.m., July 7, 2005, at BPS at the same
address as listed above.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses, or to
cancel this request in part or in its entirety.

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
June 14, 2005, St. Louis, Missouri time, at
which time they will be publicly opened and
read, viz:
LETTING NO. 8278: Communications
Infrastructure Upgrade at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport
DEPOSIT: $62,725.00
Plans, specifications and general

information may be obtained in the Office of
the Chief Engineer for Planning/Engineering,
Room MT-1296, Airport Main Terminal,
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®, from
8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday through Friday
and upon payment of ONE HUNDRED and
FIFTY dollars ($150.00) for each package.
Purchased sets become the property of the
prospective bidder and no refunds will be
made. Information concerning this project
may be obtained by telephoning
(314) 426-8015.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those
items where so called for in the proposal, and
shall show the products of the respective unit
prices and estimated quantities. He shall also
show in figures bid proposals for all items on
which Lump Sum figures are requested, and,
in addition thereto, at the end of the bid the
Lump Sum for which he will perform all of
the estimated work, as requested by the
general requirements and covenants,
specifications and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of
the work completed, less a retained amount
of ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.

“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure
that in any contract entered into pursuant to
this advertisement, minority business
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity
to submit bids in response to this invitation
and will not be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, color or national origin in
consideration for an award.”

The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in
the City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations

of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
MAY 17, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President

ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.
May 24, 2005, St. Louis, Missouri time, at
which time they will be publicly opened and
read, viz:

LETTING NO. 8277: 2005 Concourse “A”
and Concourse “E” Security Screening
Checkpoints at LAMBERT ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
DEPOSIT: $52,725.00

Plans, specifications and general
information may be obtained in the Office of
the Chief Engineer for Planning and
Engineering, Room MT-1296, Airport Main
Terminal, Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday
through Friday and upon payment of ONE
HUNDRED-FIFTY dollars ($150.00) for
each package. Purchased sets become the
property of the prospective bidder and no
refunds will be made. Information concerning
this project may be obtained by telephoning
(314) 426-8015.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show

in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work
and final acceptance by the City.
“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure
that in any contract entered into pursuant to
this advertisement, minority business
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity
to submit bids in response to this invitation
and will not be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, color or national origin in
consideration for an award.” The
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Goal for
this project is 30%.
The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
APRIL 26, 2005
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M. June
28, 2005 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which
time they will be publicly opened and read,
viz:

LETTING NO. 8279: TAXIWAY N,
NORTHWEST APRON and CONCOURSE
“C” APRON RECONSTRUCTION at
LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT®
DEPOSIT: $155,225.00

Plans, specifications and general
nformation may be obtained in the Office of
the Assistant Director of Airports for
Planning/Engineering, Room MT-1296,
Airport Main Terminal, Lambert St. Louis
International Airport®, from 8:30 AM to 4:00
PM, Monday through Friday and upon
payment of ONE HUNDRED FIFTY dollars
($150.00) for each package. Purchased sets
become the property of the prospective bidder
and no refunds will be made. Information
concerning this project may be obtained by
telephoning (314) 426-8015.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work
and final acceptance by the City.
“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure
that in any contract entered into pursuant to
this advertisement, minority business
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity
to submit bids in response to this invitation
and will not be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, color or national origin in
consideration for an award.” The
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Goal for
this project is 19%.
The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
May 24, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work Hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M. June
28, 2005 St. Louis, Missouri time, at which
time they will be publicly opened and read,
viz:
LETTING NO. 8280: Residential Sound
Insulation Program, Part XXXII at
LAMBERT ST. LOUIS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT®
DEPOSIT: $12,000.00

Plans, specifications and general
information may be obtained in the Office of
the Assistant Director of Airports for
Planning/Development, 13723 Riverport
Drive, 4th Floor, Maryland Heights Missouri
63043, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday
through Friday and upon payment of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each package. Purchased
sets become the property of the prospective
bidder and no refunds will be made.
Information concerning this project may be
obtained by telephoning (314) 551-5025.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.
“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that
in any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises
will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of
race, color or national origin in consideration
for an award.”
The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations

of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.

All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.

The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids are expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public
Service, May 24, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri time on June 28, 2005 at
which time they will be publicly opened and
read, viz:

LETTING NUMBER: 8281: CONCRETE
AND BRICK REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT AND COMPLETE SIDEWALK
INSTALLATION SP-64 (FY06-CIP)
DEPOSIT:

$12,725.00

Drawings, Specifications and Form of
Contract may be examined at the Office of the
President of the Board of Public Service,
Room 301 City Hall.

Sets of Drawings, Specifications and
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of
TWENTY-FIVE dollars ($ 25.00 ) for each
set.

Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will be
made.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices

and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.
The City of St. Louis will affirmatively
insure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, minority
business enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit bids in response to
this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The M/
WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.
The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public
Service, May 24, 2005.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Darlene A. Plump
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 1, 2005, in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL 8359 - Hearing for Granite
Works LLC to consider the revocation of a
variance for an occupancy permit with
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to
operate an office, retail sales business,
showroom and repair of countertops at 5959
Delmar. Ward 26 #AO314308-04 ZONE:
“G” – Local Commercial & Office District
APPEAL 8452 - Appeal filed by
Princella Wilson, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
home occupancy waiver authorizing the
Appellant to operate a home day care for 10
children at 6312 Sherry. Ward 27 ZONE:
"A" - Single Family Dwelling District
APPEAL 8453 - Appeal filed by Mary
Margaret Daycare and Learning Center, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to construct
a commercial building and parking lot to utilize
as a daycare and learning center at 4040 S.
Broadway. Ward 9 #AB333470-05 ZONE:
"B" - Two Family Dwelling District &
"F" - Neighborhood Commercial District
APPEAL 8454 - Appeal filed by
Vincent Imo, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
do interior alterations to have a drive/pick-up
window and awning with signage per plans at
4780 S. Spring. Ward 25 #AB335377-05
ZONE: "D" - Multiple Family Dwelling
District.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 8, 2005, in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL 8455 - Appeal filed by
Eisenhoffer Auto Sales, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto
repair business (expanding current used auto
sales business) at 3429 Watson. WARD 23

#AO336586-05
ZONE: “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District

-

APPEAL 8456 - Appeal filed by MCCI
Investments, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a convenience store at 4401 Evans.
WARD 4 #AO332596-05 ZONE: “C” Multiple Family Dwelling District

APPEAL 8457 - Appeal filed by Carriage
Auto Sales, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a used auto sales business at 6098
Arsenal. WARD 24 #AO336187-05 ZONE:
“F” - Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL 8458 - Appeal filed by Hoover
Mattress Store, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building and conditional use permit authorizing
the Appellant to construct a commercial
building per plans in order to operate a retail
sales business at 4686 Natural Bridge. WARD
21 #AB330465-05 ZONE: “F” Neighborhood Commercial District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, June 9, 2005, on the following
conditional uses:

4142 Bingham - Home Occupancy
Waiver - General Contractor - (Office Use
Only) - “A” Single Family Dwelling District.
Pmg WARD 14

1425 Central - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Cabinet Making - (Office Use Only)
- “A” Single Family Dwelling District. Pmg
WARD 24

6556 Dale - Home Occupancy Waiver Survey/Real Estate - (Office Use Only) - “A”
Single Family Dwelling District. Mv WARD
24

1719 Edwards - Home Occupancy
Waivers - A/C - Furnace Service/Repair (Office Use Only) - “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Mv WARD 10

3961 Fillmore - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Contractor - (Office Use Waiver) “B” Two-Family Dwelling District. Mv
WARD 13

1601 Hornsby - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Home Health - (Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling District. Pmg
WARD 2

4967 Mardel - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Auto Wholesale- (Office Use only) - “C”
Multiple Family Dwelling District. Pmg
WARD 10

833 Melvin - Home Occupancy Waiver
- General Contractor - (Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling District. Pmg
WARD 2

4538 McPherson - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Real Estate Broker/Marketing and
Sales - (Office Use Only) - “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Pmg WARD 28

442 Bates - #AO338077-05 - Full Drink
Bar & Grill - “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Mv WARD 11

3147 Cherokee - #AO338095-05 - Sit
Down/Carry Out - “G” Local Commercial and
Office District. Mv WARD 20

2651 Iowa - #AO337997-05 - Day Care
20 Kids: 4, 0-2 yrs and 16, 2 ½ -12 yrs SatSun 6A-12Midnight - “C” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Mv WARD 6
4461 Martin Luther King #AO337418-05 - Sit Down & Carry Out
Restaurant - “G” Local Commercial and Office
District. Mv WARD 4
5886 Martin Luther King #AO338332-05 - Retail Sale (Usable Items)
Resale - “G” Local Commercial and Office
District. Mv WARD 22
6514 Lansdowne - #AO338239-05 Day Care (20 Infants) M-F 6:30AM to
6:30PM - “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Mv WARD 16
4739 McPherson - Incidental Business
Waiver - Antique Sales - “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv WARD 28
1917 Hickory - #AO338126-05 - Bed
& Breakfast Homestay (2 rooms) “B” TwoFamily Dwelling District. Mv WARD 6

SEALED PROPOSALS
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE CITY OF ST. LOUIS
Bid No. RFP 031-0405
Sealed proposals will be received by the
St. Louis Public School before closing date,
Thursday, June 2, 2005 at 11:00 a.m., 2nd Fl.
for furnishing the following:

ANNUAL FIRE ALARM TESTING
AND INSPECTIONS
Bid will be publicly opened and read at
the above time. The Board of Education
reserves the right to reject any or all bids.
Specifications, inquiries and requirements for bidding may be obtained at the
Office of Materials Management, 801 N. 11th
St., 2nd fl, St. Louis, MO 63101. Contact
Quintin Long at (314) 345-2390 for any
questions.

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
Solicitation For Bids for
Analytical Services
SEALED BIDS WANTED
Sealed Bids will be received at the
Lambert St. Louis International Airport®,
Airport Properties Department, Main
Terminal - MTN 2109, 10701 Lambert
International Boulevard, St. Louis,
Missouri 63145 until 2:00 p.m. Thursday,
June 30, 2005 at which time they will be
publicly opened and read.
Bidding documents may be obtained at
Lambert St. Louis International Airport®,
Airport Properties Department, Main
Terminal - MTN 2109, 10701 Lambert
International Boulevard, St. Louis,
Missouri, Monday through Friday between
the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or by
calling (314) 426-8031. This Solicitation For
Bids may be obtained by visiting our website
at www.lambert-st.louis.com (Click on "Other
Services", then "Doing Business").
Robert C. Salarano
Contracts Administration Manager

INVITATION TO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
BID #640-000459
Automotive Parts & Supplies
DATE CHANGE
Sealed bids for the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, June 17, 2005 when they
will be opened publicly and announced.

Official bid forms on which bids must
be submitted may be obtained from the Office
of the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.

Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage
Acknowledgment
and
Acceptance
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit
this Declaration with the bid will result in
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's
failure to comply with the contract provisions
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may
result in termination of the contract and the
imposition of additional penalties as set for in
the Ordinance and Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
CAROL SHEPARD
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
PHONE # 314-444-5608

INVITATION TO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
BID# 650-000567 Chairs
Sealed bids for the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, June 17, 2005 when they
will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must
be submitted may be obtained from the Office
of the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.
The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during term of
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage
Acknowledgment
and
Acceptance
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit
this Declaration with the bid will result in
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's
failure to comply with the contract provisions
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may
result in termination of the contract and the
imposition of additional penalties as set for in

the Ordinance and Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
CAROL SHEPARD
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
PHONE # 314-444-5608

INVITATION TO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
BID# 650-000473 Trousers
DATE CHANGE
Sealed bids for the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, July 1, 2005 when they
will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must
be submitted may be obtained from the Office
of the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.
The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the
St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage

rates and if rates are adjusted during term of
the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the "Living Wage
Acknowledgment
and
Acceptance
Declaration" with the bid. Failure to submit
this Declaration with the bid will result in
rejection of the bid. A successful bidder's
failure to comply with the contract provisions
related to the Living Wage Ordinance may
result in termination of the contract and the
imposition of additional penalties as set for in
the Ordinance and Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
CAROL SHEPARD
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
PHONE # 314-444-5608

DEPARTMENT
OF PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.
____________________________________

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is June 10, 2005.

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY II
Prom. 1057
(PROMOTIONAL EXAMINATION
OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$37,414 to $57,252 (Annual Salary Range)

RECREATION SUPERVISOR I
Prom./O.C. 1058
$29,280 to $44,980 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is June 17, 2005.

LEGAL SECRETARY
Prom./O.C. 1059
$29,280 to $44,980 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is June 24, 2005.

COMMISSIONER OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Prom./O.C. 1056
$56,914 to $87,100 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 703, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the city web site at
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with
the City.
Richard R. Frank
Director

May 25, 2005

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.
Please contact the License Collector,
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may
also refer to our on-line site at
www.stlouiscity.com.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s

[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from
Mr. Larry Thurston, at (314) 551-5005, or
can be accessed at http://www.st
louiscity.com/living wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
May 31, 2005 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be
received by the undersigned to be opened at
the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items
listed below on the dates specified.

Notice to All Suppliers
NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Requesting a Bid
To have a bid mailed or faxed to you, please
contact the Supply Commissioner’s office at
(314) 622-4580.

TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 2004
WALKIE PALLET TRUCK
for furnishing Medium Security per Req. #38.

OFFICE FURNITURE
for furnishing Juvenile Detention per Req.
#54.

COMMERCIAL
WALK BEHIND MOWER
for furnishing Water Division per Req. #1855.

CONTRACT FOR NCR BRAND
& CARBONLESS PAPER
for a period of three (3) years from October 1,
2005 through September 30, 2008.

CONTRACT FOR TIRES, TRUCK
(REPAIR & RECAPPING)
for a period of four (4) years from October 1,
2005 through September 30, 2009.

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

