The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2009-2010
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, May 8, 2009.

These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers May 8, 2009.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin,
Triplett, Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer,
Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer,
Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,
Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 27

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for April 21, 2009.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
City of St. Louis

Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
May 5, 2009
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individual for
appointment to the Locust Central Business
District:
The appointment of Joel Rozelle, who
resides at 4643 Tower Grove Place, 63110,
for a term ending December 31, 2012. Mr.
Rozelle is the owner of Smoking Joe’s BarBe’Que at 1901 Washington Avenue.
I respectfully request your approval of
this appointment.
Sincerely
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
Ms. Triplett moved to approve the
following individual for appointment to the
Locust Central Business District: Joel Rozelle.
Seconded by Ms. Davis.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
May 5, 2009
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit to your
Honorable Board the following individual for
appointment to the Mentally Retardation
Development Disabilities Commission:
The appointment of Ms. Rosetta F.
Jackson, who resides at 4729 Lexington,
63115, and whose term will expire on October
1, 2012. She will replace Joan Kelly Horn.
I respectfully request your approval of
this appointment.
Sincerely
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
President Reed, at the request of the
sponsor, requested the following individual
for appointment to the Mental Retardation
Development Disabilities Commission: Ms.

Rosetta F. Jackson be referred to committee.
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
May 5, 2009
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Board Members:
I have the honor to return to you
herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,
Board Bills No. 375, 400 and 401.
Sincerely
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Wessels introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 47
An ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing the Mayor of the City of St. Louis,
on behalf of the City, to submit a Substantial
Amendment to the 2008 Annual Action Plan
to the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development, Office of
Community Planning and Development
(“HUD”) as required to apply for City of St.
Louis entitlement funding for the
Homelessness Prevention Fund created under
Title XII of Division A of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(“Recovery Act”), for the purpose of
providing financial assistance and services to
either prevent individuals and families from
becoming homeless or helping those who are
experiencing homelessness to be quickly rehoused and stabilized hereinafter referred to
as the referred to as the “Homelessness
Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program
(HPRP)”, further authorizing the Mayor of
the City of St. Louis, on behalf of the City, to

submit an application to the State of Missouri
for the purpose of securing for the City
additional HPRP funding awarded to the State
of Missouri (hereinafter referred to as “State
HPRP Funding”), authorizing and directing
the Mayor and the Comptroller on behalf of
the City to enter into and execute an agreement
or agreements with HUD for the receipt of
HPRP Entitlement Funding and an agreement
or agreements with HUD and/or the State of
Missouri and/or agencies and/or commissions
thereof for State HPRP Funding, appropriating
the sum of Eight Million One Hundred FiftySix Thousands One Hundred Eighty Eight
Dollars ($8,156,188) which the City has been
allocated in HPRP Entitlement Funding;
appropriating the lesser of Six Hundred
Thousand Six Hundred Dollars ($600,600) or
such lesser amount of State HPRP Funding as
may be awarded to the City; authorizing and
directing the Director of the Department of
Human Services (“DHS”) to contract with
municipal agencies, non-profit corporations
and other entities, as necessary for the
expenditure of HPRP Entitlement Funding and
State HPRP Funding; and directing the
Comptroller to issue warrants thereon upon
the City Treasury; and containing an
emergency clause.
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 48

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment of the City
of St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”) amending
Ordinance No. 68076 and authorizing and
directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance
Corporation (the “Corporation”) to issue and
sell its Leasehold Revenue Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$75,000,000 in order to fund the acquisition,
construction, repair, improvement, and
renovation of the Cervantes Convention Center
(as defined herein) for the general welfare,
safety, and benefit of the citizens of the City;
authorizing and directing the officers of the
Corporation to execute and deliver the
Supplemental Indenture (as defined herein),
the Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement
(as defined herein), the Supplemental Deed of
Trust (as defined herein), the Official
Statement (as defined herein), and the Bond
Purchase Agreement (as defined herein);
authorizing the City to execute and deliver, as
necessary or desirable to facilitate the
transactions contemplated hereby, the
Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement, the
Tax Compliance Agreement (as defined
herein), the Continuing Disclosure Agreement
(as defined herein), the Official Statement, and
the Bond Purchase Agreement; providing for
a debt service reserve fund or funds, if any,

for the Leasehold Revenue Bonds (as defined
herein); authorizing the Corporation and the
City to obtain credit enhancement for all or
any portion of the Leasehold Revenue Bonds
from one or more Credit Providers (as defined
herein); authorizing the payment of any
obligations due to such Credit Provider or
Credit Providers, if any; and authorizing the
Comptroller and any other appropriate City
officials to execute the Credit Agreement (as
defined herein) and other documents related
thereto, if any; authorizing participation of
appropriate City officials in preparing the
Official Statement; authorizing the acceptance
of the terms of the Bond Purchase Agreement
and the taking of further actions with respect
thereto; authorizing the payment of certain
costs of issuance of the Leasehold Revenue
Bonds; authorizing and directing the taking of
other actions and approval and execution of
other documents as necessary or desirable to
carry out and comply with the intent hereof;
superseding provisions of prior ordinances of
the City to the extent inconsistent with the
terms hereof; and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 49

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-115-2009, dated March 4, 2009, for
a maximum federal obligation of Two Million
Sixteen Thousand Two Hundred Thirteen
Dollars ($2,016,213), which is filed in the
Office of the City Register [Comptroller
Document No. 58874], for the reimbursement
of direct costs associated with the
rehabilitation of Taxiway S (Runway 6 to
Taxiway D - Part A; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 50

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.

Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-118-2009, dated February 24, 2009,
for a maximum federal obligation of Six Million
Seven Hundred Thirty Four Thousand One
Hundred Forty Four Dollars ($6,734,144),
which is filed in the Office of the City Register
[Comptroller Document No. 58857], for the
reimbursement of direct costs associated with
the reconstruction of Taxiway Victor from
Taxiway Foxtrot to Runway 24 (Phase 1) and
the reconstruction of Taxiway Foxtrot from
Taxiway Victor to Runway 6/24; and containing
an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 51
An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports and the Comptroller on behalf of the
City of St. Louis (the “City”) the owner and
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”) to accept and
execute on behalf of the City a certain Other
Transaction Agreement (the “Agreement”)
offered by the Federal Aviation Administration
for the purchase and installation of Airport
Surface Detection Equipment (“ASDE”),
ASDE-X monitor(s), and ASDE-X system
enhancement communication equipment at the
Airport for a maximum obligation of Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) for the
purchase and installation associated with the
projects funded under the Agreement; and
containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 52
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, Board
of Public Service, and the Board of Estimate
and Apportionment authorizing a Fourth
Amendment to Section Six of the Airfield
Projects Public Works Ordinance 65162
approved February 15, 2001, as amended by
Ordinance 65626 approved August 5, 2002,
Ordinance 66611 approved February 16,
2005, and Ordinance 67114 approved June 5,
2006, which authorized a multi-year public
work and improvement program (the “Airfield
Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport®, authorizing the Director of Airports

to make such applications and provide such
data and to take whatever action necessary to
seek funds under the Airport Improvement
Program, the Passenger Facility Charge
Program or other federal, state or local
programs for Airfield Projects therein
authorized where such costs or expenditures
are deemed eligible and monies made available
for those costs under federal, state, or local
law or contract and to authorize the deposit
of such funds into Ordinance 65162 as
amended to reimburse the costs in part of the
Airfield Projects or the payment of costs
authorized therein; containing a severability
clause; and containing an emergency clause.
Board Members Wessels and Conway
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 53

An ordinance pertaining to parks and
the creation of a special fund to be known as
the Metropolitan Park and Recreation District
Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust Fund
for the purpose of funding certain park capital
improvements and recreational purposes
throughout the city; amending Section 9 of
Ordinance 64994, and enacting in lieu thereof
a new section pertaining to the same subject
matter pertaining to providing for the creation
of a special fund to be known as the
Metropolitan Park and Recreation District
Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust Fund
for the purpose of funding certain park capital
improvements and recreational purposes
throughout the city and the affirmative vote
of a majority of all members of the Board of
Aldermen; and containing a severability clause.

Board Members Wessels and Conway
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 54

An ordinance pertaining to parks and
the creation of a special fund to be known as
the Neighborhood Park Fund for the purpose
of funding certain park capital improvements
and recreational purposes throughout the city;
amending Section 8 of Ordinance 67747, and
enacting in lieu thereof a new section pertaining
to the same subject matter pertaining to
providing for the creation of a special fund to
be known as the Neighborhood Park Fund for
the purpose of funding certain park capital
improvements and recreational purposes
throughout the city and the affirmative vote
of a majority of all members of the Board of
Aldermen; and containing a severability clause.
Board Member Wessels and Conway
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 55

An ordinance pertaining to public safety
and the annual allocation of One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000) for crime prevention

programs; amending Section One (1) (v) of
Ordinance 67794, and enacting in lieu thereof
a new section pertaining to the same subject
matter pertaining to providing for the annual
allocation of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000)
for crime prevention programs and the
affirmative vote of a majority of all members
of the Board of Aldermen; and containing a
severability clause.
Board Member Flowers introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 56

An Ordinance designating a portion of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri as a
Redevelopment Area known as the Taylor
Carrie Redevelopment Area pursuant tot he
Real Property Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act; approving a
Redevelopment Plan and a Redevelopment
Project with respect thereto; adopting tax
increment financing within the Redevelopment
Area; making findings with respect thereto;
establishing the Taylor Carrie Special
Allocation Fund; authorizing certain actions
by city officials; and containing a severability
clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bills No. 47 and 56.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
Board Bills No. 53 and 54.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
Board Bill No. 55.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
None.
Transportation and Commerce
Board Bills No. 49, 50, 51, and 52.
Ways and Means
Board Bill No. 48.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 8, 2009.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 33
An ordinance authorizing the Director
of Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or
otherwise impede the flow of traffic at the 15'
wide north/south alley in City Block 2440 at
a point approximately 150 feet south of Ferry
Street bounded by 11th Street, Penrose Street,
Randall Place and Ferry Street in the City of
St. Louis, Missouri.

Board Bill No. 43
An Ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St.
Louis, establishing public works and
improvement projects for the design and/or
construction of twelve (12) American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
Projects involving various infrastructure
improvements (the “ARRA Projects”)
including Compton Avenue Viaduct Repairs
Over Union Pacific Railroad, Vandeventer
Avenue Streetscape (Kingshighway to Shaw),
Dr. Martin Luther King Pedestrian Lighting
(City Limits to Arlington), Loughborough
Avenue Bridge Widening Over Union Pacific
Railroad, Manchester Avenue Pedestrian
Lighting (Taylor to Sarah), Overlay and
Pedestrian Improvements (Goodfellow from
Delmar to Natural Bridge, and Skinker from
Clayton to Page), South Grand Improvements
(Arsenal to McDonald), Morgan Ford Road
Signal Interconnection and Upgrades (Arsenal
to City Limits), Grand Center/Grand
Boulevard Streetscape (Lindell to Page), South
Broadway Streetscape (Courtois to Upton),
Removal of North Tucker Boulevard Bridge
(Washington to Cass), and Municipal Terminal
Dock Improvements (One North Market); and
authorizing and directing the City of St. Louis
(the “City”), by and through its Board of
Public Service, to let contracts and provide
for the design, construction, materials, and
equipment for the ARRA Projects, authorizing
the Board of Public Service to employ labor
and consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,
acquire real property interests, and to enter
into supplemental agreements with the
Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission,
Federal
Highway

Administration, railroads, utilities, and other
governmental agencies for the ARRA Projects
all in accordance with the American
Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009, with
any contract containing sections for:
description of the work, material guarantees,
estimated expenditure allocations, fund
reversion authorization, applicable federal and
state wage rate requirements, equal
opportunity provisions, the Mayor ’s
Executive Orders, and contract advertising
statutes; requiring that all work provided for
herein shall be carried out in accordance with
detailed plans and specifications adopted and
approved by the Board of Public Service before
bids are advertised therefor; directing that all
construction contracts let by authority of this
Ordinance provide for federal and state
prevailing wages requirements including
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and
compliance with all applicable statutes of the
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the
Revised Code of the City, as amended;
requiring all specifications approved by the
Board of Public Service and contracts let by
authority of this Ordinance provide for
compliance with the Mayor’s Executive Orders
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when
superseded or prohibited by federal or state
law or regulation; requiring all advertisements
for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject
to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as
amended; and appropriating the total
estimated cost of the twelve (12) ARRA
Projects of Thirty-two Million, Five Hundred
Thirty-four Thousand, Three Hundred
Ninety-five Dollars ($32,534,395.00) from
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
of 2009; authorizing and directing the
Comptroller of the City to draw warrants from
time to time and disburse funds appropriated
by this ordinance and to receive and disburse
grant funds in accordance with the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 upon
the signature and certification of vouchers by
the President of the Board of Public Service;
and containing a public work emergency
clause.
Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways
and Means submitted the following report
which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 8, 2009.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 5

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the Comptroller of the City of
St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”) to obtain a
credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) for the
purpose of securing the outstanding City
Justice Center Bonds (as defined herein), for
the general welfare, safety, and benefit of the
citizens of the City; authorizing the
Comptroller of the City to execute and deliver
a promissory note (the “Note”) payable to
Bank of America, N.A. (the “Bank”) pursuant
to which the Bank will issue the Credit
Facility; authorizing the payment of certain
obligations due to the Bank under the Note;
authorizing the Mayor, the Comptroller, and
any other appropriate City officials, if
necessary, to execute any other documents
related to the Note and the Credit Facility;
authorizing and directing the taking of other
actions and approval and execution of other
documents as necessary or desirable to carry
out and comply with the intent hereof; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 28

An ordinance to provide for the
borrowing of funds in anticipation of the
collection of tax payment levied by the City
of St. Louis, Missouri for deposit in its General
Revenue Fund for the calendar year ending
December 31, 2009, and remaining uncollected
and other revenues remaining to be collected
and deposited in the General Revenue Fund
for fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, all such
revenues for the General Revenue Fund in the
Treasury of the City of St. Louis, Missouri
through the issuance by the City of St. Louis,
Missouri of its Tax and Revenue Anticipation
Notes, and the acquiring of credit enhancement,
if necessary, in order to lower the cost of such
borrowing; prescribing the form and details of
such notes; authorizing and approving certain
documents and other actions; and containing
an emergency clause.
Alderman Conway
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Bosley moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of moving the following Board
Bill to the Board Bills for Perfection calendar:
Board Bill No. 43.
Seconded by Mr. Williamson.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Moore, FordGriffin, Triplett, Young, Conway, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Heitert, Wessels, Gregali, Florida,
Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid,
French, Vaccaro, Waterhouse, Cohn,
Williamson, Krewson and President Reed. 25
Noes: 0

Present: 0

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
Mr. Bosley moved that Board Bill No.
43 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Williamson.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 28 and 29 and the Clerk was instructed to
read same.

Resolution No. 28
Skin Cancer and UV Radiation
Awareness Month
WHEREAS, the skin performs many
essential tasks, such as protection from
ultraviolet light, regulation of body
temperature, provision of sensation, and
support of metabolic functions;
WHEREAS, in 2004, the total direct
cost associated with the treatment for nonmelanoma skin cancer was $1.5 billion; and
WHEREAS, one-half of all new cancers
will be skin cancers and the incidence of skin
cancer is more than breast, colon, lung, and
prostate, and all other cancers combined; and
WHEREAS, current estimates are that
one in five of all Americans and one in three of
US Caucasians will develop skin cancer in their
lifetime; and
WHEREAS, more than 1 million new
cases of skin cancer will be diagnosed in the
United States this year, and one person dies
from melanoma every 65 minutes in America;
and

WHEREAS, according to a national
cancer database from 1975-2000, melanoma
is the most common form of cancer for young
adults 25-29 years old and the second most
common form of cancer for adolescents and
young adults 15-29 years old; and

WHEREAS, more than one blistering
sunburn in childhood potentially doubles a
person’s chance of developing melanoma later
in life; and

WHEREAS, two percent of all cancer
deaths are due to excessive exposure to the
sun, a statistic similar to those attributed to
environmental pollutants;

WHEREAS, UV radiation that is 10-15
times natural sunlight and are associated with
skin cancer and premature aging; and

WHEREAS, people that are exposed to
UV radiation are 2-3 times increased risk of
non-melanoma skin cancers when compared
to non-users; and

WHEREAS, increased artificial UV
exposure has been proposed to be related to
the recent alarming increase in melanoma seen
in young adult females,

WHEREAS, more than 90% of all skin
cancers are caused by UV exposure, yet fewer
than 35% of adults, adolescents, and children
routinely use sun protection; and

WHEREAS, the Skin Cancer
Foundation has deemed May as the national
Skin Cancer Awareness month designed to
promote awareness, prevention, and early
detection of melanoma and other skin cancers;
and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen that
it recognizes May 2009 as Skin Cancer and
UV Radiation Awareness Month the and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and make it available to
the public.

Introduced on the 5th day of May, 2009 by:
Honorable Stephen M. Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard
Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9thWard
Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward
Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward

Resolution No. 29
5th District Officer of the Year
Ceremony
WHEREAS, the 5th District Business
Association will sponsor its 5th District
Officer of the Year Ceremony luncheon on
Tuesday, May 12, 2009; and
WHEREAS, under the outstanding
leadership of 5th District Commander/Captain
Mary E. Edwards-Fears have the officers of
5th District continued to serve and protect
the residents of the City of St. Louis in an
exemplarily fashion; and
WHEREAS, police officers; William
Gillen (January), Anthony Boettighemier
(January), Jason Scheel (February), Nicholas
Martorano (February), Jeremy Cotton
(March), Rodger Gibson (April), Timothy
Borstell (May), Andrew Griffin (May),
Ishmael Tyson (June & August), Todd Hefele
(September), William Gillen (October),
Thomas Meyer (November), Kevin
Newcombe (November) and Marcus Bush
(December) have been recognized by their
peers as “Officers of the Month for 2008”;
and
WHEREAS, police officers Joseph
McCloskey and Jeremy Cotton have been
further deemed as “Officers of the Year 2008”;
and
WHEREAS, the residents and
stakeholders of the Jeff-Vander-Lou, St. Louis
Place, Old North St. Louis, Near North
Riverfront, Hyde Park, College Hill,
Fairground, O’Fallon and Fairground are all
appreciative of the bravery and commitment
of the 5th District officers and officials.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the men and women
of the 5th District for making the City of St.
Louis a better place to live and work and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 8th day of May, 2009 by:
HonorableApril Ford-Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 28 and 29 stood
considered.

President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 28 and 29 be adopted, at this meeting of
the Board.
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.
30 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 30
Hazardous cargoes transported
by rail through St. Louis
WHEREAS, major US railroads operate
through the City of St. Louis bringing freight
which includes chlorine gas, anhydrous
ammonia, and other hazardous cargoes of
concern to federal homeland security officials;
and
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis is
classified as a High Threat Urban area by the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security; and
WHEREAS, liquefied chlorine gas and
anhydrous ammonia rail shipments, of the
highest concern to homeland security officials,
total nearly 100,000 railcars per year in the
US as reported by experts on chemical accident
prevention; and
WHEREAS, the current routes used by
major railroads pass within yards of St. Louis
city residential neighborhoods, through
downtown and near many potential terrorism
targets including sports arenas, monuments,
entertainment centers, historic buildings, city
icons, government buildings and other
significant areas where large numbers of people
gather daily; and
WHEREAS, possible alternative rail
routes could transfer the most dangerous
chemical cargoes onto available non-target
lines that skirt well around the City of St.
Louis and other target cities and would
therefore significantly reduce the risk of
terrorism and the detrimental affects of
accidental releases; and
WHEREAS, according to recent
congressional records the Association of
American Railroads testified in Congress that
when railroads transporting toxic gas cargoes
travel through major cities they are “risking
the company” since they are uninsured for
the potential $10 Billion in damages that could
result from a major release and thus asked
Congress to indemnify them in the case of a
release; and
WHEREAS, chlorine is classified as a
Toxic Inhalation Hazard by the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security; and

WHEREAS, the Chlorine Institute
estimates that one chlorine tank car can release
a cloud at a potentially lethal level that extends
15 miles downwind and 4 miles wide; and

WHEREAS, recent filings with the U.S.
Surface Transportation Board indicate clearly
that railroads transport many chlorine gas
cargoes hundreds, even thousands of miles
across the US, on routes some of which no
doubt routinely traverse the City of St. Louis;
and

WHEREAS, a recent statement
submitted to the U.S. Department of
Transportation by PPG Industries of
Monroeville, Pennsylvania indicates that
regulations do not require competing railroads
to cooperate with one another to find
alternative routes available that can lower
terrorism risk for chlorine shipments but that
these rules allow railroads to refuse cooperating
with each other to use alternative routes which
can result in unnecessarily placing shipments
onto routes hundreds of miles longer and
through major target urban areas because of
competition with one another; and

WHEREAS, immediately after the 9/11
attacks chlorine and other ultrahazardous
railcars were promptly ordered off the tracks
and brought to “safe havens” and since this
date, according to authors and advocates on
this subject, the US Surface Transportation
Board filings indicate that federal agencies have
been quietly meeting with railroads and
shippers to try, with little success, to shorten
chlorine and other ultrahazardous cargo routes
to reduce terrorism risks; and

WHEREAS, in recent years, chemical
releases from railcars in major cities have
forced the evacuation of thousands of residents
for days at a time, costing the cities hundreds
of thousands of dollars during the emergency
and resulting in settlements that individually
cost the cities and/or railroads millions of
dollars to reimburse residents and businesses
harmed by the releases; and

WHEREAS, in January 2005 the
derailment of a Norfolk Southern railcar in
Graniteville, South Carolina released at least
90 tons of chlorine gas resulting in nine deaths,
250 injuries and the evacuation of 5400
residents for nearly two weeks; and

WHEREAS, a “Midnight Regulation”
finalized by the Bush Administration’s
Federal Railroad Administration, effective
December 26, 2008, provides that throughout
2009 each individual railroad can unilaterally
analyze and select its urban hazardous cargo
routes with no significant input from state
and local officials, despite protests from some
cities and the National Conference of State

Legislatures for being cut out of major public
safety decision making process; and

WHEREAS, the new rules require only
that railroads “consider” using competitors’
rail lines not that they actually interchange
cargoes to bypass target areas, nor that railroads
allow other carriers to use their tracks, nor
that they consider allowing another carrier
access to their customers despite requests
from shippers, state and local governments as
illustrated in comments of PPG Industries
submitted to Congress in 2008; and
WHEREAS, local and state
governments have a direct interest in
protecting their communities from the threat
of hazardous materials releases.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED that the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen expresses its concern to the
unnecessary rail transport of potentially toxic
chlorine, anhydrous ammonia and other
ultrahazardous cargoes through the City of
St. Louis and that this Board urges Congress
and the Obama Administration to revise the
routing law and the routing rule to include
requirements that railroads work together with
mandated inputs from state and local officials
to determine the safest and most secure routes
for these cargoes that involve all carriers.
Be It Further Resolved that this Board
of Aldermen urges the Chief of the City of St.
Louis Fire Department and the Director of
Public Safety to contact the railroads operating
through the City of St. Louis and request
participation in their routing analyses, route
selections and planning that impact our
citizens and to assess the adequacy of the
transportation security vulnerability
assessments and security plans produced by
the railroads for routing and storage of
hazardous shipments that place our citizens
at risk throughout the area and that a copy of
this resolution be spread upon the minutes of
this Board and that a copy be sent to those
deemed appropriate by its sponsor.
Introduced on the 8th day of May, 2009 by:
HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward

Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution No.
30 be referred to the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce.
Seconded by Mr. Williamson.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Villa and Mr. Boyd.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return May 15, 2009.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - May 12, 2009
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Rice-Walker, Bryson and President Melton.
Absent: Directors Bess and Siedhoff.
(excused)
Requests of the Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Forestry and Human Services
to be excused from the Regular Meeting of
May 12, 2009 was read and leaves of absence
granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May
5, 2009 were unanimously approved.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT
Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and the Board set
the date of June 16, 2009 for opening bids for
work and Secretary instructed to insert proper
advertisement therefore:
Letting No. 8383 - Wohl Recreation
Center Repairs, Project No. 07951.03
Contract and bond ordered approved as
follows:
Letting No. 8376 - Residential Sound
Insulation Program Part 49, Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport®, Daar Engineering Inc.,
518 West Cherry Street, Milwaukee WI
53212, Contract No. 19740.

Addendum No. 1 to the plans and specs
for Letting No. 8382 - Cherokee Recreation
Center repairs approved and made part of the
original plans.

Agreement between the City of St. Louis
acting through the Board of Public Service and
Union Pacific Railroad Improvements for
improvements to existing public road at grade
crossing for Chouteau Avenue, Dot 424 787X,
M.P. 0.35, Lesperance Industrial Lead in the
amount of $125,523 approved and President
authorized to execute same.

Missouri
and
Transportation
Commission American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act Federal Aid Program
Agreement between the City of St. Louis and
the Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission for South Grand Improvements
- Arsenal and McDonald approved and
President authorized to execute same.

Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act Federal Aid Program
Agreement between the City of St. Louis,
Missouri and Missouri Highway and
Transportation Commission for Morganford
Road Signal Interconnect/Upgrade - 11
Intersections from Arsenal Street to City Limit
approved and President authorized to execute
same.

St. Louis Development Corporation to
execute an agreement and contract with the
Missouri Department of Transportation for
the Infrastructure Improvements for Produce
Row which is bounded by Broadway, St.
Louis Avenue, Market and Branch Street
ordered approved.

St. Louis Development Corporation to
execute various agreements and contracts with
the Missouri Development Corporation for
the design and construction of North Sarah
Streetscape and Carrie Avenue Streetscape
ordered approved.

PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES

Application No. 115256, City of St.
Louis, for temporary easement to install a 18"
RCP storm sewer at 9050 Riverview ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR
OF PARKS, RECREATION
AND FORESTRY

Application No. 115345, Lafayette Park
Conservancy, restore part of the revolutionary
war gun monument in Lafayette Park by
constructing a new wooden navel carriage for
one gun, cleaning gun and constructing a
masonry platform on which the gun and new
carriage will be displayed in Lafayette Park

ordered approved subject to certain
conditions.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS

2 permits for Union Electric d/b/a
AmerenUE ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 115053, install
10' 1 each 5" PL conduit and marry and extend
conduit to manhole at 808 Chestnut at corner
of 8th and, 115054, install 10' each 5" PL
conduit and marry and extend customers
conduit to manhole at 910 Chestnut west of
9th.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No. 115350, Eliot School
L.P., resubdivide at 3933 and 3939 25th Street
in C.B. 2398 ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

2 permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 115272A,
Newstead Tower Public House, encroach with
sidewalk café at 4353 Manchester (southside
of building facing Newstead) and, 115355, The
Dogtown Historical Society, install street light
banners at various locations throughout the
24th Ward.

DIRECTORS OF HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC SAFETY

3 day care centers ordered approved as
follows: 112685, Kareer Kids Child
Development
Center,
5474
No.
Kingshighway, 115177, The Children’s
Academy, 2415 No. Kingshighway and,
115226, Shaw Avenue Children Center, 4265
Shaw.

Application No. 115162, New Day
Adult Day Center, conduct an adult day care
center at 6115 West Florissant ordered
approved.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

10 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved, as submitted by the Hearing
Officer, per Board Order No. 766: 115401,
824 Bittner, home repair (home occupancy
wavier), 115402, 4727 Goethe, cleaning
business (home occupancy wavier), 115403,
4651 Tesson, funeral procession escorts (home
occupancy wavier), 115404, 2846 St. Vincent,
landscaping and lawn service (home
occupancy wavier), 115405, 3917 Lee,
construction service (home occupancy
wavier), 115406, 6229 Gravois, used furniture
sales, 115407, 1009 Russell, pottery studio
and retail and internet sales business, 115408,
3150 Morganford, retail sales deli with 22%
beer and wine (1st floor) and massage parlor
(2nd floor), 115409, 5970 Delmar, interior and

exterior alterations (per plans) for a restaurant
and, 115410, 5757 Lisette, transportation
business (home occupancy wavier).
Agenda Items for May 5, 2009 ordered
approved.
Board adjourned to meet Tuesday, May
19, 2009.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E. LEED AP
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE
REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for DESIGN OF REPAIRS TO THE
NORTH MUNICIPAL DOCK, ST.
LOUIS, MO. Statements of Qualifications
due by 5:00 PM CT, Tuesday, May 19, 2009
at Board of Public Service, 1200 Market,
Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103.
RFQ may be obtained from website
www.stlbps.org, under Contracts & Bids,
Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at
314-589-6214.

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Board of Public Service will hold a
public hearing on Tuesday, June 2, 2009 in
Room 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider
the following:
Hearing No. 8112 – Brother Auto Sales,
revocation of Conditional Use Permit No.
110965, to occupy 7230 No. Broadway as a
auto sales, repair and outside storage business
pursuant to City of St. Louis Revised Code
Section 26.100.030.
Marjorie L. Melton, P.E. LEED AP
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
There will be no public hearing held
by the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, May 27, 2009 in Room 208 City
Hall.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 3, 2009 in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #9322 - Appeal filed by
Broadway Express, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to operate a carwash business at
8422-26 N. Broadway.
WARD 2
#AO453098-09 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #9323 - Appeal filed by
Townsend Tire Shop, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to operate a repair & resale of used
tires business at 1723 N. Taylor. WARD 4
#AO453058-09 ZONE: “F”- Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #9324 - Appeal filed by New
Hope Missionary Baptist Church, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to construct a church (zoning
only) per plans at 2517 North Florissant.
WARD 5 #AB453118-09 ZONE: “A”Single Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #9325 - Appeal filed by A-1
Sign, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to install one
non - illuminated projecting sign per plans at
2024-26 Lafayette. WARD 7 #AB45435509 ZONE: “B”- Two Family Dwelling
District

APPEAL #9326 - Appeal filed by
Garrett Signs, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing t he Appellant to
install two wall signs and one ground
illuminated sign per plans at 2625 Lafayette.
WARD 7 #AB453454-09 ZONE: “G”Local Commercial & Office District

APPEAL #9327 - Appeal filed by EZ
Storage, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to construct
a commercial building (self storage) zoning
only at 4150 and 4164 Chippewa. WARD 25
#AB452307-09 ZONE: “J” – Industrial
District #AB452308-09

In accordance with the provisions of

Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, May 28, 2009, on the following
conditional uses:

5065 Maple - Home Occupancy WaiverChavers Construction (Interior Remodeling)
“C’ Multiple-Family Dwelling District. Mv
Ward 18

3215 Potomac - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Sanchez Quality Cleaning Services
(Cleaning Services) “B” Two-Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 20

6011 Louisiana - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Amped Up (Contractor) “A” SingleFamily Dwelling District. Mv Ward 11

3321 Union - #AO-455390-09 –
Daycare (50 Children Total) 8 Infants & 42 2
1/2-12 Years of Age, 6am-6pm, Monday Friday “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 1

5510 Virginia - #AO-455966-09 – Full
Drink Sitdown/Carryout Restaurant
(Basement, 1st Floor & Outside Patio) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg
Ward 25

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, June 4, 2009, on the following
conditional uses:
4550 Holly - Home Occupancy WaiverSuBre’ Accessories, LLC (Home Party
Accessories)“B” Two-Family Dwelling
District. Pmg Ward 21
3902 Wyoming - Home Occupancy
Waiver- Posh Pop LLC (Popcorn) “A” SingleFamily Dwelling District. Te Ward 15
2903 Chippewa - #AO-452990-09 –
Carryout Restaurant (Amending Hours of
Operation) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 20
8701 Riverview - #AO-455630-09 –
Grocery Store/Carryout Restaurant (No
Liquor)“F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 2
5520 Virginia - #AO-456512-09 –
New/Used Clothing, Jewelry, Collectables, Art

& Internet Sales “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv Ward 25
1911-13 Park - #AO-456732-09 –Full
Drink Bar, Restaurant, Retail Sales of Wine &
Outdoor Seating in Front & Back (Amending
Conditions to Allow for Outdoor Seating) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg
Ward 6
2125 Bissell - #AB-455944-09 – Interior
Alterations-Multipurpose Building (Educational; Business Incubator & Community
Outreach/Food Pantry Programs) “B” TwoFamily Dwelling District & “G” Local
Commercial and Office District. Bl Ward 3

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Housing, Urban Development and
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on May
20, 2009 at 10:00 A.M. in the Kennedy Room
(208) in City Hall:

BOARD BILL NO. 6
Introduced By
Alderman Joseph Vaccaro
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on April 1, 2009, to
change the zoning of property as indicated on
the District Map, from “A” Single-Family
Dwelling District to the “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District, in City Block 4752.04
(5550 Fyler), so as to include the described
parcel of land in City Block 4752.04; and
containing an emergency clause.

BOARD BILL NO. 7
Introduced By
Alderman Stephen Conway
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on February 4, 2009,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “D” MultipleFamily Dwelling District to the “H” Area
Commercial District, in City Block 1463
(3500-18 Hartford), so as to include the
described parcel of land in City Block 1463;
and containing an emergency clause.

BOARD BILL NO. 8
Introduced By
Alderwoman Marlene Davis
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on February 4, 2009,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “C” MultipleFamily Dwelling District to the “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District, in City
Block 1865 (3737 & 3739-41 Page, 1312-14
Prairie and 3746-52 Evans), so as to include
the described parcels of land in City Block
1865; and containing an emergency clause.

Any person wishing to speak for or
against the above cited board bill should be
present.
Sincerely,
Donna A. Booker
Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen

NOTICE OF

OPEN MEETING
May 11, 2009
12:00 pm

Notice is hereby given that the Human
Development Corporation of Metropolitan
St. Louis will conduct a meeting at 12:00
noon, on Friday, May 22, 2009, at 935 N.
Vandeventer, St. Louis, MO.
A tentative agenda of the meeting includes:
I.

Roll Call of Members Present

II. Review of Minutes:
• February 27, 2009 Board Meeting
III. Correspondence
IV. Reports

1) Chairman's Report
2) Budget and Audit Committee Report
3) President/CEO's Report
V.

Old Business

VI. New Business

Representatives of the news media may
obtain copies of this notice by contacting:
Mrs. Ruth A. Smith
929 North Spring Avenue
St. Louis, MO 63108
(314) 613-2200

INVITATION TO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
160-001397 – Office Supplies
160-001396 – Department Printed Forms

Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, May 29, 2009 will be
opened publicly and announced. Official bid
forms on which bids must be submitted may
be obtained from the Office of the Director of
Purchasing by prospective bidders upon
request in person or by telephone during

regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.
The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.
Email must include vendor’s company name,
address, and description of bid.

Brad Turner
Purchasing Agent
PHONE# 314-444-5608

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
SEALED BIDS WANTED
Sealed bids will be received at the Office
of the Airport Properties Division, Room
MTN-2501, Mid Level, Main Terminal,
10701 Lambert International Boulevard, until
2:00 p.m. local time on the following date:

Tuesday, August 4, 2009
On-Airport Passenger Vehicle
Rental Concession
All bids submitted will be publicly
opened and read on the date specified above
for the rights and privileges so described at
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®.
This solicitation is subject to the City
of St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance, #65597.
More information is available at
www.mwdbe.org.
Bid documents may be obtained at the
above location between the hours of 8:30 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday, or by calling
(314) 426-8184. You may also visit our
website at www.flystl.com and click on
“About Lambert” then click “Business
Opportunities”. Thank you.
Rob C. Salarano
Airport Properties Division Manager

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS
The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is MAY 22, 2009.

ATTORNEY III (CIVIL LITIGATION)
Prom. 1611
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$72,202 to $107,822 (Annual Salary Range)
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is JUNE 5, 2009.

CUSTODIAN (LEAD)
Prom. 1612
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$24,726 to $32,214 (Annual Salary Range)

Applications for the following
examination will be accepted until a sufficient
number are received to fill anticipated
vacancies. Please submit application as soon
as possible.

LIFEGUARD
O.C.C. 1587
$9.20 (Hourly Salary)

Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the city web site at
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with
the City.
Richard R. Frank
Director
May 13, 2009

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.
Please contact the License Collector,
Room 104 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri,
63103 or phone (314) 622-4528. You may
also refer to our on-line site at
www.stlouiscity.com.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires

that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 551-5048, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
May 19, 2009 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be
received by the undersigned to be opened at
the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items
listed below on the dates specified.

Notice to All Suppliers

NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Requesting a Bid

To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,
please contact the Supply Commissioner’s
office at (314) 622-4580.

TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2009
UNINTERUPTABLE POWER
SUPPLY
for the Airport Authority per Req. #451.

DIGGER DERRICK TRUCK
for the Equipment Services Division per Req.
#891.

60 FT. AERIAL BASKET TRUCK
for the Equipment Services Division per Req.
#892.

TANDEM AXLE DUMP TRUCK
WITH SNOW PLOW AND
SPREADER
for the Equipment Services Division per Req.
#893.

THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 2009
BARRIER: CONCRETE MEDIAN
TYPE “A”
for the Street Department per Req. #161.

STARTERS
for the Airport Authority per Req. #449.

DIAPHRAGM METERING PUMP,
3-INCH DIAPHRAGM
for the Water Division per Req. #1538.

ONE TON CAPACITY
TRI-ADJUSTABLE
ALUMINUM CASTER FRAME
GANTRY CRANE
for the Water Division per Req. #1539.

INSERTION MAGNETIC
FLOWMETER
for the Water Division per Req. #1541.

INTELLIGENT DUAL INPUT
ANALYZER
for the Water Division per Req. #1546.
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

