The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2010-2011
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, May 14, 2010.

These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers May 14, 2010.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Ford-Griffin,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Heitert,
Wessels, Gregali, Florida, Baringer, Roddy,
Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Waterhouse, Williamson, Carter and President
Reed. 24

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for April 30, 2010.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 58

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate the 2100 block
of 39th Street as “Don & Elaine Burrus
Boulevard.”

Board Member Moore introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 59

An ordinance approving a blighting study
and redevelopment plan dated March 23, 2010
for the 4319 Ashland Ave. Redevelopment
Area (as further defined herein, the “Plan”)
after finding that said Redevelopment Area
(“Area”) is blighted as defined in Section
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
as amended (the “Statute” being Sections
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as
amended); containing a description of the
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis
(“City”), attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Attachment “A”, finding that
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area
is in the interest of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Attachment “B”,
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as
amended; finding that there is a feasible
financial plan for the redevelopment of the
Area which affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”), a public body corporate and
politic created under Missouri law, through
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that
none of the property within the Area is
occupied, but if it should become occupied
the Redeveloper(s) (as defined herein) shall
be responsible for providing relocation
assistance pursuant to the Plan to any eligible

occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
up to a five (5) year real estate tax abatement;
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis
Board of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting
various officials, departments, boards and
agencies of the City to cooperate and to
exercise their respective powers in a manner
consistent with the Plan; and containing a
severability clause.
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 60
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the St. Louis Municipal Finance Corporation
(the “Corporation”) to execute and deliver a
Second Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the
“Second Supplemental Indenture”) relating to
its Carnahan Courthouse Leasehold Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2006A (City of St.
Louis, Missouri, Lessee) (the “Series 2006A
Bonds”) for the general welfare, safety and
benefit of the citizens of the City of St. Louis,
Missouri (the “City”); authorizing and
directing the Mayor, Comptroller or other
appropriate City official, if necessary, to
execute a consent thereto and the taking of
further actions with respect thereto;
authorizing the payment of certain costs
relating to the execution of such Second
Supplemental Indenture; authorizing and
directing the taking of other actions, and the
approval and execution of other documents,
as necessary or desirable, to carry out and
comply with the intent hereof; and repealing
ordinances of the City to the extent
inconsistent with the terms hereof. [, and
containing an emergency clause.]
Board Member Boyd introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 61
An ordinance approving a blighting study
and redevelopment plan dated April 27, 2010
for the Dr. Martin Luther King Dr./Burd Ave./
Cote Brilliante Ave./Clara Ave. Redevelopment
Area (as further defined herein, the “Plan”)
after finding that said Redevelopment Area
(“Area”) is blighted as defined in Section
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
as amended (the “Statute” being Sections
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as
amended); containing a description of the
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis
(“City”), attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Attachment “A”, finding that
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area
is in the interest of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto

and incorporated herein as Attachment “B”,
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as
amended; finding that there is a feasible
financial plan for the redevelopment of the
Area which affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”), a public body corporate and
politic created under Missouri law, through
the exercise of eminent domain; finding that
some of the property within the Area is
occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as defined
herein) shall be responsible for providing
relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
up to a twenty-five (25) year real estate tax
abatement; and pledging cooperation of this
St. Louis Board of Aldermen (“Board”) and
requesting various officials, departments,
boards and agencies of the City to cooperate
and to exercise their respective powers in a
manner consistent with the Plan; and
containing a severability clause.
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 62

An Ordinance providing for the
imposition of an additional one-quarter
percent sales tax for public transportation
purposes upon the sale of retail of tangible
personal property and services as authorized
at the election held on November 4, 1997.

Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 63

An ordinance approving a blighting study
and redevelopment plan dated April 27, 2010
for the 4106 Cleveland Ave. Redevelopment
Area (as further defined herein, the “Plan”)
after finding that said Redevelopment Area
(“Area”) is blighted as defined in Section
99.320 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri,
as amended (the “Statute” being Sections
99.300 to 99.715 RSMo inclusive, as
amended); containing a description of the
boundaries of the Area in the City of St. Louis
(“City”), attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Attachment “A”, finding that
redevelopment and rehabilitation of the Area
is in the interest of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the people of
the City; approving the Plan attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Attachment “B”,
pursuant to Section 99.430 RSMo, as
amended; finding that there is a feasible

financial plan for the redevelopment of the
Area which affords maximum opportunity for
redevelopment of the Area by private
enterprise; finding that no property in the Area
may be acquired by the Land Clearance for
Redevelopment Authority of the City of St.
Louis (“LCRA”), a public body corporate and
politic created under Missouri law, through
the exercise of eminent domai; finding that
none of the property within the Area is
occupied, but if it should become occupied
the Redeveloper(s) (as defined herein) shall
be responsible for providing relocation
assistance pursuant to the Plan to any eligible
occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis
Board of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting
various officials, departments, boards and
agencies of the City to cooperate and to
exercise their respective powers in a manner
consistent with the Plan; and containing a
severability clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 64

An ordinance approving a blighting study
and redevelopment plan dated April 27, 2010
for the 4527 Washington Blvd.
Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,
the “Plan”) after finding that said
Redevelopment Area (“Area”) is blighted as
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the
“Statute” being Sections 99.300 to 99.715
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a
description of the boundaries of the Area in
the City of St. Louis (“City”), attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Attachment “A”,
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation
of the Area is in the interest of the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the people of the City; approving the Plan
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Attachment “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430
RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a
feasible financial plan for the redevelopment
of the Area which affords maximum
opportunity for redevelopment of the Area
by private enterprise; finding that no property
in the Area may be acquired by the Land
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the
City of St. Louis (“LCRA”), a public body
corporate and politic created under Missouri
law, through the exercise of eminent domai;
finding that none of the property within the
Area is occupied, but if it should become
occupied the Redeveloper(s) (as defined

herein) shall be responsible for providing
relocation assistance pursuant to the Plan to
any eligible occupants displaced as a result of
implementation of the Plan; finding that
financial aid may be necessary to enable the
Area to be redeveloped in accordance with
the Plan; finding that there shall be available
up to a ten (10) year real estate tax abatement;
and pledging cooperation of this St. Louis
Board of Aldermen (“Board”) and requesting
various officials, departments, boards and
agencies of the City to cooperate and to
exercise their respective powers in a manner
consistent with the Plan; and containing a
severability clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bill No. 61.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
Board Bills No. 59, 63 and 64.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bill No. 58.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bills No. 60 and 62.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
Mr. Schmid of the Committee on
Legislation submitted the following report
which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 14, 2010.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Legislation to whom

was referred the following Board Bills, report
that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 39

An ordinance to repeal Ordinance 63999,
codified as Chapter 4.63 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis, and in lieu thereof a
new Chapter 4.63 is hereby substituted which
pertains to the same subject matter but also
includes a provision for regulating the
reimbursement of personal cellular telephone
usage costs for official City of St. Louis
business; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 43

An ordinance making it a violation to
not appear before the Municipal Division of
the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis after
being lawfully summoned to answer to lawful
charges for violations of municipal ordinances.
Alderman Schmid
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 14, 2010.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 46

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in a
51 foot wide portion of Elliott Ave. from
Montgomery St. southwardly 175 feet to a
point vacated previously by Ordinance 63750
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 41

An Ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis
(the “Board of Public Service”), establishing a
public works and improvement project for
the construction of the South Grand Great
Streets Improvements - Phase Two between
Arsenal Street and Utah Street (the “South
Grand Great Streets Improvements - Phase
Two”); and authorizing and directing the City
of St. Louis (the “City”), by and through its
Board of Public Service, to let contracts and
provide for the construction, materials, and

equipment for the South Grand Great Streets
Improvements - Phase Two, authorizing the
Board of Public Service to employ labor and
consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,
acquire real and personal property (by lease,
purchase, or condemnation), and to enter into
supplemental agreements with the Missouri
Highway and Transportation Commission,
Federal Highway Administration, utilities, and
other governmental agencies for the South
Grand Great Streets Improvements - Phase
Two all in accordance with the federal
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st
Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with any
contract containing sections for: description
of the work, material guarantees, estimated
expenditure allocations, fund reversion
authorization, applicable federal and state
wage rate requirements, equal opportunity
provisions, the Mayor’s Executive Orders,
and contract advertising statutes; requiring that
all work provided for herein shall be carried
out in accordance with detailed plans and
specifications adopted and approved by the
Board of Public Service before bids are
advertised therefore; directing that all
construction contracts let by authority of this
Ordinance provide for federal and state
prevailing wages requirements including
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and
compliance with all applicable statutes of the
State of Missouri, the City Charter and the
Revised Code of the City, as amended;
requiring all specifications approved by the
Board of Public Service and contracts let by
authority of this Ordinance provide for
compliance with the Mayor’s Executive Orders
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when
superseded or prohibited by federal or state
law or regulation; requiring all advertisements
for bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject
to the provisions of Section 8.250 RSMo., as
amended; and appropriating the total
estimated cost of the South Grand Great
Streets Improvements - Phase Two of One
Million, Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($1,250,000.00) from various sources
including the Federal Highway Administration
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half
Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of
the City to draw warrants from time to time
and disburse funds appropriated by this
ordinance and to receive and disburse grant
funds in accordance with the Transportation
Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.
110, et seq.) upon the signature and
certification of vouchers by the President of
the Board of Public Service; and containing a
public work emergency clause.

Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 14, 2010.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 9
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing a Fifth Supplemental
Appropriation in the amount of Three Million
Dollars ($3,000,000) from the Airport’s FAA
Land Sale Account into the Noise Mitigation
Program Ordinance 64192 approved
November 17, 1997, as amended by Ordinance
65217 approved June 29, 2001, for the
payment of costs authorized therein; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 10
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing a
First Amendment to Section One of the Airport
Schedule F CIP Project Ordinance 67357
approved December 19, 2006, which
authorized a multi-year public work and
improvement program (“Airport Projects”)
at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
(“Airport”), increasing the total estimated
cost of the Airport Projects by Sixty Four
Million Six Hundred Seventy Six Thousand
Dollars ($64,676,000) to Two Hundred
Million Dollars ($200,000,000); authorizing
a Fifth Supplemental Appropriation in the
total amount of Seventeen Million Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($17,500,000)
from the Airport Construction Fund SubAccount for the 2009 Series A-1 Bond Issue
established and authorized pursuant to
Ordinance No. 68358 approved June 8, 2009,
into the Airport Schedule F CIP Project
Ordinance 67357 approved December 19,
2006, for the payment of costs for work and
services authorized therein; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 11
An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
making certain findings with respect to the
transfer of One Million Seven Hundred

Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000) of excess
moneys that The City of St. Louis (the
“City”), the owner and operator of LambertSt. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), intends to transfer from the
“Airport Development Fund” (established
under Ordinance 59286, Section 13, approved
October 26, 1984) into the “Airport
Contingency Fund” (established under
Ordinance 59286 approved October 26, 1984,
Exhibit A, Article V, Sections 502 and 510) in
accordance with Section 509.F of the LambertSt. Louis International Airport® Amended
and Restated Indenture of Trust between the
City, as Grantor, and UMB Bank, N.A., as
Trustee, dated as of October 15, 1984, as
amended and restated as of July 1, 2009 (the
“Restated Indenture”); authorizing transfers
in the total amount of One Million Seven
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000) from
the Airport Development Fund into the
Airport Contingency Fund; further
authorizing transfers of funds in the total
amount not to exceed One Million Seven
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,700,000) from
the Airport Contingency Fund to the Airport
Revenue Fund (established under Ordinance
59286, approved October 26, 1984) during
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2010 as are
required for the purposes of making funds
available for the Air Service Incentive Program
for the Airport adopted by Ordinance 68478,
approved November 6, 2009; containing a
severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 12

An ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission, the Board of Public
Service, and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, a municipal
corporation (“St. Louis”), to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis the “Agreement
and Contract of Sale” (substantially in the
form as set out in ATTACHMENT “1” which
is incorporated herein), between St. Louis, the
owner and operator of Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”), which is
located in St. Louis County, Missouri, and
Hunter Engineering Company, a Missouri
corporation (“Buyer”), necessary for the sale
by St. Louis to Buyer of certain surplus
property (the “Property”) located in St. Louis
County that is more fully described in Section
1 and EXHIBIT “A” of the Agreement and
Contract of Sale as well as the relinquishment
by St. Louis of St. Louis’ rights under that
certain Easement Agreement between St. Louis
and Buyer as more fully described in Section
3 of the Agreement and Contract of Sale,
subject to and in accordance with its provisions
and to the applicable rules and regulations of

the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”)
and the applicable provisions of the Airport’s
Amended and Restated Indenture of Trust
between UMB Bank, N.A., Trustee, dated
October 15, 1984 as amended, and restated
on September 10, 1997 as amended; providing
for the deposit of the proceeds from the
Agreement and Contract of Sale; authorizing
and directing the Mayor and the Comptroller
of St. Louis to enter into and execute on behalf
of St. Louis the “Quit Claim Deed”
substantially in the form as set out in
EXHIBIT “C” to the Agreement and Contract
of Sale subject to and in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement and Contract of Sale,
remising, releasing and forever quit-claiming
unto Buyer, its successors and assigns, the
Property subject to the easement and
restrictive covenants as defined and provided
for in the Quit Claim Deed; authorizing and
directing the Mayor and the Comptroller of
St. Louis to enter into and execute on behalf
of St. Louis the “Release and Quit Claim
Deed” substantially in the form as set out in
EXHIBIT “B” to the Agreement and Contract
of Sale subject to and in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement and Contract of Sale,
conveying, releasing, remising, and forever
quit-claiming unto Buyer all of St. Louis’ rights,
title, and interest to the Easement Area
previously granted to St. Louis by the Buyer
under the Easement Agreement; conditioning
the execution and delivery by St. Louis of the
agreements, documents, and instruments
contemplated in this Ordinance on the FAA’s
prior written approval of: a) the release and
sale of the surplus Property to the Buyer, b)
the relinquishing by St. Louis of its rights under
the Easement Agreement, c) the provisions of
the Agreement and Contract of Sale including,
without limitation, the “Purchase Price” of
Four Hundred Twenty Seven Thousand Three
Hundred Twenty Nine Dollars ($427,329.00),
as defined and provided for in Section 2 of the
Agreement and Contract of Sale, and d) any
other related matter required to be submitted
to and approved by the FAA; authorizing the
Mayor, the Comptroller, the Register, the City
Counselor, the Director of Airports, and other
appropriate officers, officials, agents,
designees, representatives, and employees of
St. Louis, with the advice of the Director of
Airports, to enter into and execute on behalf
of St. Louis and in St. Louis’ best interest any
attendant or related documents, agreements,
affidavits, certificates, or instruments deemed
necessary to effectuate the terms set forth in
the Agreement and Contract of Sale, the
Release and Quit Claim Deed, and the Quit
Claim Deed, and/or deemed necessary to
preserve and protect St. Louis’ interest and to
take such actions as are necessary or
appropriate in connection with the sale of the
Property or the consummation of the

transactions contemplated herein; providing
that the provisions set forth in this Ordinance
shall be applicable exclusively to the
agreements, documents, and instruments
approved and/or authorized by this
Ordinance, and containing a severability clause,
and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 13
An ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission, the Board of Public
Service, and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis, Missouri, a municipal
corporation (“St. Louis”), to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis the “Agreement
and Contract of Sale” (substantially in the
form as set out in ATTACHMENT “1” which
is incorporated herein), between St. Louis, the
owner and operator of Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”), which is
located in St. Louis County, Missouri, and
David Shupp & Charlene Shupp, a married
couple (“Buyer”), necessary for the sale by
St. Louis to Buyer of certain surplus property
(the “Property”) located in St. Louis County
that is more fully described in Section 1 and
EXHIBIT “A” of the Agreement and Contract
of Sale, subject to and in accordance with its
provisions and to the applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration (“FAA”) and the applicable
provisions of the Airport’s Amended and
Restated Indenture of Trust between UMB
Bank, N.A., Trustee, dated October 15, 1984
as amended, and restated on September 10,
1997 as amended; providing for the deposit
of the proceeds from the Agreement and
Contract of Sale; authorizing and directing the
Mayor and the Comptroller of St. Louis to
enter into and execute on behalf of St. Louis
the “Quit Claim Deed” substantially in the
form as set out in EXHIBIT “B” to the
Agreement and Contract of Sale subject to
and in accordance with the terms of the
Agreement and Contract of Sale, remising,
releasing and forever quit-claiming unto Buyer,
their successors and assigns, the Property
subject to the easement and restrictive
covenants as defined and provided for in the
Quit Claim Deed; conditioning the execution
and delivery by St. Louis of the agreements,
documents, and instruments contemplated in
this Ordinance on the FAA’s prior written
approval of: a) the release and sale of the
surplus Property to the Buyer, b) the
provisions of the Agreement and Contract of
Sale including, without limitation, the
“Purchase Price” of Eight Thousand Dollars
($8,000.00), as defined and provided for in
Section 2 of the Agreement and Contract of
Sale, and d) any other related matter required
to be submitted to and approved by the FAA;

authorizing the Mayor, the Comptroller, the
Register, the City Counselor, the Director of
Airports, and other appropriate officers,
officials, agents, designees, representatives,
and employees of St. Louis, with the advice
of the Director of Airports, to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis and in St. Louis’
best interest any attendant or related
documents, agreements, affidavits, certificates,
or instruments deemed necessary to effectuate
the terms set forth in the Agreement and
Contract of Sale, the Quit Claim Deed, and/or
deemed necessary to preserve and protect St.
Louis’ interest and to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate in connection with
the sale of the Property or the consummation
of the transactions contemplated herein;
providing that the provisions set forth in this
Ordinance shall be applicable exclusively to
the agreements, documents, and instruments
approved and/or authorized by this
Ordinance, and containing a severability clause,
and an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Conway of the Committee on Ways
and Means submitted the following report
which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 14, 2010.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 6

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
and directing the Comptroller of The City of
St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”) to renew a
credit facility (the “Bank of America Credit
Facility”) previously obtained for the purpose
of securing the outstanding City Justice Center
Bonds (as defined herein), for the general
welfare, safety, and benefit of the citizens of
the City; authorizing the City to execute and
deliver a first amended and restated
promissory note (the “Restated Note”)
payable to Bank of America, N.A. (the “Bank”)
pursuant to which the Bank will renew the
Bank of America Credit Facility; authorizing
the payment of certain obligations due to the
Bank under the Restated Note; authorizing
the Mayor, the Comptroller, and any other
appropriate City officials, if necessary, to
execute any other documents related to the
Restated Note and the Bank of America Credit
Facility; authorizing and directing the
Comptroller of the City to obtain a credit

facility (the “Northern Trust Credit Facility”)
to be issued by The Northern Trust Company
(“Northern Trust”) for the purpose of
replacing the Bank of America Credit Facility
upon its termination and securing the
outstanding City Justice Center Bonds, for
the general welfare, safety, and benefit of the
citizens of the City; authorizing and directing
the St. Louis Municipal Finance Corporation
(the “Corporation”) to execute and deliver a
supplemental indenture, if any, amending the
herein described Indenture and a supplemental
lease purchase agreement, if any, amending
the herein described Lease Agreement in
connection with the Northern Trust Credit
Facility; authorizing the City to execute and
deliver such supplemental lease purchase
agreement, if any, and an agreement with
Northern Trust (the “Northern Trust
Agreement”) pursuant to which the Northern
Trust Credit Facility shall be issued;
authorizing the payment of certain obligations
due to the Bank under the Northern Trust
Agreement; authorizing the Mayor, the
Comptroller, and any other appropriate City
officials, if necessary, to execute any other
documents related to the Northern Trust
Credit Facility; authorizing and directing the
taking of other actions and approval and
execution of other documents as necessary or
desirable to carry out and comply with the
intent hereof; and containing an emergency
clause.
Alderman Conway
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Carter of the Committee on Health
and Human Services submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 14, 2010.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Health and Human
Services to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 44
(Committee Substitute)

An Ordinance for regulation and control
of Air Pollution within the City of St. Louis:
repealing Ordinance 65442, approved March
18, 2002; and Ordinance 65645 approved
October 15, 2002, pertaining to the regulation
and control of air pollution and enacting in
lieu thereof a new ordinance pertaining to the
same subject matter, and containing a
severability clause, a penalty clause and an
emergency clause.
Alderman Carter
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Wessels moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 8, 25, 35 and 27.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 64 through 70 and the Clerk was instructed
to read same.

Resolution No. 64
Bishop Beulah B. Brandon
WHEREAS, the Board of Aldermen
recognizes Bisho Beulah B. Brandon, on this
most prestigious and spiritual day, that Pastor
Beulah B Brandon will be Elevated as Bishop
of Trinity Full Gospel Ministries
International; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Beulah B. Brandon
chose Baden almost over 10 years ago to set
up her ministry and serve the community;
and
WHEREAS, Bishop Beulah B. Brandon
took several vacant pieces of property in the
2nd ward and made them viable again and never
once shied away from her vision and focus;
and
WHEREAS, she has faced some real
trials and tribulations in her own personal life
as well as the everyday issues and struggles
of her own congregation that she ministers to;
and
WHEREAS, Bishop Beulah B. Brandon
has dedicated herself to a mission to better
Downtown Baden and participate not only
spiritually but as a leader on the St. Louis
North Businessman Association; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Beulah B. Brandon

has a well ran daycare and provides many
people in need by opening a monthly food
pantry; and

WHEREAS, Bishop Beulah B. Brandon
will be consecrated by the Most Reverend
Arthur Lee Kelley, Senior Bishop & Chief
Consecrator May 8th, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. at
The Greater Faith Missionary Baptist Church
located at 4114 West Natural Bridge Avenue,
Saint Louis, Missouri; and

WHEREAS, a Banquet in Honor of
Bishop Beulah B. Brandon will be Celebrated
at Lights on Broadway Conference Center
May 8th, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. located at 8344
N. Broadway, Saint Louis, Missouri.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Bishop Beulah
B. Brandon on her Elevation and wish her
more blessings, success and love and we direct
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of
this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to further prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 7th day of May, 2010 by:
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward

Resolution No. 65

Prince Hall Mason’s Buffalo Soldiers
WHEREAS, in 1890 a group of Buffalo
Soldiers assigned to Fort Apache, Arizona
Territory applied to the Most Worshipful
Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Missouri for a
Charter to establish a Masonic Lodge; and

WHEREAS, in 1891 a Charter was
issued by the Grand Lodge of Missouri under
the leadership of J.H. Pelham, Most
Worshipful Grand Master for Eureka Lodge
#135 U.D. to work as a Masonic Lodge with
the following officers; Richard Anderson, Post
Quartermaster, 9th Cavalry as Worshipful
Master; Sgt. Chinn, Ordinance 24th Infantry
as Senior Warden; Sgt. S. Stith, B Co. & M.
Co, 10th Cavalry as Junior Warden; 1st Sgt.
John Pendergrass, A Co., 10th Cavalry as
Treasurer; Sgt. Charles Perry, Quartermaster
L Co. 10th Cavalry, Secretary; Sgt. C.S.
Faulkner, A Co. 10th Cavalry as Chaplain;
and Sgt. Wm. C. Harris, E Co. 24th Infantry
as Tyler; and

WHEREAS, these Prince Hall Masons
and Buffalo Soldiers carried this Charter to
Fort Buford, North Dakota in 1891 where the
unit was assigned and co-existed with
Yellowstone Lodge #88 A.F. & A.M. until the
fort was closed; and

WHEREAS, the Most Worshipful
Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Missouri has
issued a duplicate Charter in the name of
Eureka Lodge #135 as a historical Lodge signed
by the following officers, R.W. Edward
Johnson-Deputy Grand Master; R.W.
Michael T. Johnson- Grand Senior Warden;
R.W. Lawrence A. Jones, Jr.-Junior Grand
Warden; R.W. Theopholis Charles-Grand
Secretary; R.W. Jackie Thomas-Acting
Treasurer; R.W. Malcolm Morris-Grand
Relief Secretary; R.W. Spuregon RobinsonGrand Tyler. The officers of the Most
Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge will travel
to Ft. Buford, North Dakota to present this
Charter as a part of our contribution to the
Masonic Historical site; and

WHEREAS, the North Dakota Grand
Lodge A.F. & A.M., the Most Worshipful
Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Missouri, the
North Dakota State Historical Society, and
the North Dakota Masonic Foundation will
hold a 50th Anniversary Rededication of the
Masonic Historic Site at Fort Buford on May
21st and 22nd, 2010, where history will be
recreated with the issuance of historical Lodge
status to Eureka Lodge #135, F. & A.M. of
Missouri and Yellowstone Lodge #88 of North
Dakota; and

WHEREAS, in honor of this historic
event we pause in our deliberations to honor
the Buffalo Soldiers and their rich history in
bringing order to the wild west and the rich
history of Prince Hall Masons all over the
globe more especially in Missouri.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor the Prince
Hall Mason’s Buffalo Soldiers and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:

Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward
HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward
Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward
Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard

Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward
Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 66
The 75 Anniversary of the
Saint Thomas the Apostle Romanian
Orthodox Church
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
Saint Thomas the Apostle Romanian
Orthodox Church is celebrating its 75 year
anniversary; and
WHEREAS, Saint Thomas the Apostle
Romanian Orthodox Church was founded in
1935 by a group of Macedo-Romanians, many
of whom came from the same village located
in what is now Albania. They are a mixed
group today, with descendants of those
founding families, newly arrived Romanian and
Albanian immigrants, some Russian and
Serbian Orthodox members, and some
American-born converts; and
WHEREAS, in St. Louis, the Romanians
located around the Soulard area. The presentday location of the Monsanto complex was at
one time home of many Romanians. The area
basically extended from Third Street up to
Twelfth Street. The Macedo-Romanians were
located around Lemp Avenue, where the
brewery now stands, as well as in the
neighborhood of the Holy Trinity Serbian and
St. Michael Russian churches on the south
side; and
WHEREAS, Saint Thomas the Apostle
Romanian Orthodox Church has known three
locations: 1427 Missouri Avenue (a house
church); 5624 South Compton Avenue
(converted funeral home); and 6501
Nottingham Avenue, our present location
where the faithful built a new edifice from the
ground up; and
WHEREAS, Saint Thomas the Apostle
Romanian Orthodox Church has long been a
“family church.” Members lived in the same
neighborhoods, visited one another, and shared
their joy and sorrow. Many of the founders
are now gone, yet their contributions remain
and their children carry on. These children are
our present leaders. Our parish council, ladies
auxiliaries, church school have all been

influenced, shaped and guided by this
generation of American Orthodox. The faithful
of St. Thomas Church have preserved and
continue to proclaim the Orthodox Christian
faith; and

WHEREAS, on Sunday, May 16, 2010
a banquet will be held to celebrate this
momentous occasion.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the 75th
Anniversary of Saint Thomas the Apostle
Romanian Orthodox Church and we direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to further prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward

Resolution No. 67

Rev. James E. Cook
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to note many contributions on
Rev. James E. Cook, (December 4, 1900 August 1, 1961); and

WHEREAS, Rev. Cook was the
Executive Director of the Pine Street Branch
YMCA from 1941-1961; and

WHEREAS, from 1946 until his death,
Rev. Cook was the officiating pastor of
Antioch Baptist Church. He was also a civic
leader, appointed to human relations and
housing committees under several mayoral
administrations. Rev. Cook led the campaign
for construction of Homer G. Phillips
Hospital. He served for many years on the
Annie Malone Children’s Home Board of
Directors and orchestrated the orphanage’s
May Day festivities; and

WHEREAS, the annual Y-Circus was
the brainchild of Rev. Cook, and the annual
proceeds from this event raised funds to extend
the camping experience to those who could
not afford to attend Camp River Cliff. Through
his work with Antioch Baptist Church, the
Pine Street Branch YMCA, Camp River Cliff,
and other institutions of the Black community
Rev. Cook inspired and motivated many young
people to achieve their dreams; and

WHEREAS, the YMCA Olde Tymers
commissioned a bust of Reverend James E.
Cook as a testament to the Cook legacy and
his work as Executive Director of the Pine
Street Branch YMCA; and
WHEREAS, the dedication of the bust

will occur on May 19, 2010, 11:00 a.m. at the
Monsanto Family YMCA to be permanently
installed.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause to
remember the many contributions of Rev.
James E. Cook to the citizens of the City of
St. Louis and we direct the Clerk of this Board
to spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
copy for the family of the honoree, at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward

Resolution No. 68
Sumner High School’s Ladies of the
80’s 1st Annual Picnic ‘N Pink
WHEREAS, on Saturday, May 15,
2010, in recognition of National Women’s
Health Week, May 9th-15th 2010, Sumner
High School’s Ladies of the 80’s will host their
1st Annual Picnic ‘N Pink, a family and
community health, nutrition and wellness
event at Tuskegee Airmen Field in Tandy Park;
and
WHEREAS, the event will raise the
awareness of the health disparities that exist
in the Ville and Greater Ville neighborhoods,
particularly among African American women
and identify resources for them to gain
assistance in planning and maintaining healthier
lifestyles; and
WHEREAS, participants will be
encouraged to take responsibility for their
health and wellness by pledging to walk either
½ or 1 mile during the “Women’s Wellness
Walk”; and
WHEREAS, healthy food cooking
demonstrations, healthy food samples, and
family and friends fitness activities will take
place throughout the event.
WHEREAS, Sumner’s Ladies of the
80’s believe that the health of our country,
our city, our community and our children rests
with the health of our women; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Sumner High
School’s Ladies of the 80’s 1st Annual Picnic
‘N Pink and we wish them success and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward

Resolution No. 69
Robert W. Fletcher
WHEREAS, Robert W. Fletcher enlisted
in the Army Air Corps. September 1946 and
served two years on Okinawa with the 1949th
Engineers in the Engineering Section 22nd
Bomb Group, 20th Air Force, Far East
Command, Kadena Air Base; and
WHEREAS, returning to the United
States, he served as draftsman with the 1600th
Installation Squadron at Westover Air Force
Base, Springfield, Massachusetts, during the
Berlin air lift, and was discharged October
1949; and
WHEREAS, he joined the Navy Reserve
as an aviation electrician at the Air Station,
Lambert Field, 1956-1960, until the base was
de-activated; and
WHEREAS, being a Son of the Legion,
he joined Clifton Heights Post #222, until they
turned in their charter, wherein he transferred
to Aubuchon-Dennison Post #186 and he is a
PUFL with 36 years of continuous
membership; and
WHEREAS, being active in the Post
activities as Sgt. at Arms, Historian,
Americanism, the “Flash” Post Newsletter,
he was elected Commander in 1997-1998 and
2006-2007; and
WHEREAS, in 1999, he was elected as
Historian to the 11th/12th District and served
through the ranks of Vice-Commanders to
Commander in 2004-2005; and
WHEREAS, he headed the committee
for the Flag Day ceremonies and Veterans Day
2003, with appointments to the Membership
Council, Constitution and By Laws,
Credential/ Rules Committee, Time and Place
Committee. He served with the Americanism
Council from 1998, and has been the
Naturalization Chairman since 2001; and
WHEREAS, he was certified as the
VAVS representative of the American Legion
at John Cochran Medical Center in 2005; and
WHEREAS, as a member of Voiture 38
of the 40/8 1999, he has served in Americanism,
as Garde des Prisonnier, Aumonier, Commis
Voyageur, Chef de Train, elected Chef de Gare
in 2007-2008 and presently is Alt. Grand
Cheminot and Sous Grand Chef de Train; and
WHEREAS, He is a member of the St.
Louis Past Commanders Club having served
as Sgt. at Arms, 2nd Vice-President, 1st VicePresident and elected President in 2008-2009;
joining his father, Frank H. Fletcher, of Clifton
Heights Post #222, President in 1955, giving

the Club a first with Father and Son Presidents
of the Past Commanders Club.

WHEREAS, presently he is a member
of the War Vets Club of Missouri, The Locos
Club of America, National past Chef de Gare
Club, Amvets Post #6, Sons of the American
Legion, Squadron #186, and Commander of
Aubuchon-Dennison Post 186, 2008-2010.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
accomplishments of Robert W. Fletcher and
wish him continued success and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:

Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward

Resolution No. 70

Annual Delta Day
WHEREAS, Delta Sigma Theta
Sorority, Inc. was founded on January 13,
1913, by twenty-two visionary women at
Howard University; and

WHEREAS, since that day Delta
members have been actively involved in almost
every major social movement in the United
States; and

WHEREAS, the first public act
performed by the Delta founders involved
their participation in the historic Women’s
Suffrage March in Washington, D.C. in March
1913; and

WHEREAS, originally chartered as
Lambda Sigma, the Saint Louis Alumnae
Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta has been
committed to public service for 97 years; and

WHEREAS, every Delta uses her
influence for the enactment of laws to protect
the unfortunate and for the repeal of those
laws which deprive human beings of their
privileges and rights; and

WHEREAS, Deltas from across the
nation travel to Washington, D.C. to
participate in “Delta Days in the Nation’s
Capitol”; and

WHEREAS, on Friday, May 14, 2010,
Deltas from throughout the St. Louis
metropolitan area will gather at St. Louis City
Hall to celebrate the 8th Annual Delta Day in
the City of St. Louis; and

WHEREAS, this year’s five-point
programmatic thrust includes: Economic

Development, Educational Development,
International Awareness & Involvement,
Physical & Mental Health and Political
Awareness & Involvement. In 2010 the
chapter also focused on the census by
providing information to over 28 churches and
other community organizations.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor the
members of the St. Louis Chapter of Delta
Sigma Theta Sorority and we thank them for
their tireless efforts on behalf of the citizens
of this community and we direct the Clerk of
this Board to prepare a commemorative copy
of this Resolution to the end that it may be
presented to our honorees at a time and place
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 14th day of May, 2010 by:

Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1st Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward
HonorableApril Ford Griffin,Alderwoman 5th Ward
Honorable Kacie S. Triplett,Alderwoman 6th Ward
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward
Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9th Ward
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward
Honorable Matthew Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable Fred Heitert,Alderman 12th Ward
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard
Honorable Stephen Gregali,Alderman 14th Ward
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward
Honorable Terry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward
Honorable William Waterhouse,Alderman 24th Ward
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 64 through 70 stood
considered.

President Reed moved that Resolution
No. 65 be adopted, en banc.
Seconded by Mr. Gregali.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

President Reed moved that Resolution
No. 70 be adopted, en banc.
Seconded by Mr. Bosley.

Carried unanimously by voice vote.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 64 through 70 are adopted, at this meeting
of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Triplett, Ms. Young, Mr. French,
Mr. Cohn and Ms. Krewson.
Seconded by Mr. Carter.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return May 21, 2010.
Seconded by Mr. Heitert.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - May 18, 2010
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Bryson and
President Bradley.
Absent: None.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May
11, 2010 were unanimously approved.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

LETTINGS
Five under Letting No. 8427 - America’s

Center Roof Replacement was received,
publicly opened, read and referred to the
President.

PRESIDENT

Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and the Board set
date of June 15, 2010 for opening bids for
work and Secretary instructed to insert proper
advertisement therefore: Letting No. 8434 Grand Center Grand Blvd. Streetscape
Improvements

The Board rejected all bids received
under Letting No. 8413 - Grand Center Grand
Streetscape Enhancements by reason of the
fact that funds for this project are provided
through the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009 which is
administered through the Missouri Highways
and Transportation Commission. MoDOT
has completed its review of the bids and has
informed the City that they cannot concur in
the City’s request to award this contract as 3
of the 6 bidders on the project (including the
low bidder) did not acknowledge receipt of
Addendum No. 2 that was issued by the City.
MoDOT further sates that the City will need
to re-advertise for bids.

Preliminary approval given and 10 days
granted in which to sign same: Letting No.
8410 - Vandeventer Streetscape Improvements, N.B. West, 2780 Mary, Brentwood,
MO 63144, Amount: $612,405.40

Proposed contract and bond ordered
approved as follows: Letting No. 8415 Manchester Avenue Enhancements and
Pedestrian Lighting, Gershenson Construction
Company Inc., 2 Truitt Drive, Eureka, MO
63025, Contract No. 19779

Addendum No. 1 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8426 Residential Sound Insulation Program Part 53
at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®,
approved and made part of the original plans.

Addendum No. 2 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8428 - America’s
Center Roof Chiller and Cooling Tower Plant
Improvements approved and made part of the
original plans.

Other Transaction Agreement relating to
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
checked Baggage Screening Design Services
Project between the Department of Homeland
Security,
Transportation
Security
Administration and the City of St. Louis
approved and President authorized to execute
same.

The Board declared as emergency work
new west elevators and stair in Terminal
1parking garage, Lambert-St. Louis

International Airport®.

PRESIDENT AND
DIRECTOR OF STREETS

Application No. 116359, Total Realty
Corporation, encroach with handicap entry
ramp at 1620 No. Delmar ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS

Application No. 116552, Level 3
Communications, LLC, place fiber optic cable
by boring and/or trenching at 1802 Locust
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

Application No. 116529, Reinhold
Electric Inc., install 2 ½ “ underground roll
pipe from AmerenUE utility pole in alley to
existing meter socket on house at 6545 Delmar
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

2 Permits for Charter Communications,
place fiber optic cable by boring and/or
trenching ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions as follows: 116582, 2114 No. 10th
Street and, 116583, 712 No. 2nd.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY

2 Permits ordered denied, violation of
Board Order No. 720 as follows: 116586,
Habitat for Humanity, resubdivide land at
1341-43 No. Garrison, 2940-46 Sheridan,
2940-46, Sheridan, 2938-48, 2945-47, 295147 and 2952-56 Thomas in C.B.1004, 1005
and 1030 and, 116613, Saint Louis University
and Drake Plaza L.P., subdivide land at 322731, 3301-35, 3401-05 Olive and 3320-26
Locust in C.B. 1042E and 1057.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No. 116625, Forget Me Not
Bed and Breakfast, occupy 2712 So. Compton
as a bed and breakfast ordered approved.

Application No. 113211, Apple Nine
Hospitality Management LLC., operate hotel
(126 rooms) change of ownership at 5650
Oakland ordered approved.

10 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,
per Board Order No. 766: 116635, 4370
Manchester, daycare, 116636, 3842 Primm,
photography business (office use only) home
occupancy wavier, 116637, 3739 Page, café
with consumption of liquor, caterer, art galley,
prtl pmt, 116638, 5428 Tholozan, general
contracting business (home occupancy),
116639, 3132 Oregon, cleaning business
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
116640, 6109-11 Gravois, full drink bar,
restaurant with sidewalk seating, rear patio,

116641, 2400 So. Jefferson, office #202,
warehouse #103-105, flood protection
system, 116642, 4842 Hamburg, bake and sell
dog treats (office use only) home occupancy
wavier, 116643, 3541 Taft, masonry and
construction (office use only) home
occupancy, 116644, 5974 Columbia, lawn care
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
116645, 6143 Roberts, rain barrel installation
business (office use only), 116646, 5916
Delmar, market and deli and, 116647, 601820 Lloyd, construct a parking lot per plans.
Agenda Items for May 18, 2010 ordered
approved.
The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
May 25, 2010.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri time on JUNE 15 , 2010
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
JOB TITLE: GRAND CENTER GRAND
BLVDSTREETSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS
LETTING NO: 8434
DEPOSIT: $ 46,260.00
Drawings, Specifications and Form of
Contract may be examined at the Office of the
President of the Board of Public Service,
Room 301 City Hall. Plans and specs may be
viewed on BPS website: http://www.stlbps.org/contract.asp (BPS Virtual Plan Room).
Sets of Drawings, Specifications and
Proposal Form may be obtained by giving
three (3) days notice, and upon payment of
SEVENTY FIVE dollars ($75.00) for each
set.
Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal

in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten (10%) percent. Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.

The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all
bidders that it will affirmatively ensure that
in any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, disadvantaged business
enterprises will be afforded full opportunity
to submit bids in response to this invitation
and will not be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, color, or national origin in
consideration for an award.

The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.

All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.

The prime contractor must have a fully
responsive contractor questionnaire on file
with the Missouri Highway and
Transportation Commission at least 7 days
prior to bid opening date in order for MODOT
to concur with the award of this project.

The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
May 18, 2010.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President

ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

The Board of Public Service will hold a
public hearing on Tuesday, June 15, 2010 in
Room 208 at 1:45 p.m., City Hall to consider
the following:

Hearing No. 8131 – Donell Allen,
revocation of Conditional Use Permit No.
112032, for outside storage (dumpsters) at
2909-15 No. Broadway pursuant to the City
of St. Louis Revised Code Chapter
26.100.030.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President

ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 2, 2010 in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #9539 – Appeal filed by Ready
Made Auto Sale, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a used auto sales lot and office at
108 W Ferry. WARD 2 #AO476678-10
ZONE: “K” – Unrestricted District
APPEAL #9540 – Appeal filed by
Alderman Shane Cohn, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to operate an office and police
substation at 3840 Keokuk. WARD 25
#AO477719-10 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District
APPEAL #9541 – Appeal filed by
Liberty Auto Salvage Company, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit to
operate an auto salvage with outside storage
of vehicles and retail sales business at 361125 Cass. WARD 5 #AO477216-10

ZONE: “G” – Local Commercial & Office
District
APPEAL #9542 – Appeal filed by The
Gramophone, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
install one illuminated projecting sign, per
plans, at 4243-45 Manchester. WARD 17
#AB477521-10 ZONE: “G” – Local
Commercial & Office District
APPEAL #9543 – Appeal filed by
Michael Knobbe, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
construct a driveway and parking pad, per
plans, at 6209 Tilden.
WARD 13
#AB477064-10 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #9544 – Appeal filed by
Northside Regeneration LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to complete interior and exterior
alterations for a senior living facility and
museum, per plans, at 1849 -59 Cass. WARD
5 #AB477170-10 ZONE: “C” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District “G” – Local
Commercial & Office District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 9, 2010 in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL #9545 – Appeal filed by Ozell’s
Kitchen, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a carryout restaurant ( no liquor or
sidewalk seating) at 5451 Delmar. WARD 26
#AO477273-10 ZONE: “D & E” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #9546 – Appeal filed by S &
M Market, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a grocery store with full package
liquor (expanding business) at 5001 N.
Kingshighway. WARD 1 #AO476330-10
ZONE: “B” – Two Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #9547 – Appeal filed by Go

Inc, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit to operate an office for a marketing
business at 6022-26 Southwest (1st floor).
WARD 24 #AO477368-10 ZONE: “A” –
Single Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #9548 – Appeal filed by Go
Inc, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate
an office for a marketing business at 6022
WARD 24
Southwest (2 nd Floor).
#AO477369-10 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL-#9549 – Appeal filed by
Karen’s Kids Daycare, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to amend operation hours for a
daycare from 5:30 a.m. to 6:00 pm., Monday
through Friday to 5:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday at 3622 -22A
Michigan. WARD 20 #AO168118-99
ZONE: “B” – Two Family Dwelling
District

APPEAL #9550 – Appeal filed by Arts
Food Mart, from the determination of the
Board of Public Service in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
operate a supermarket with full package/
change of ownership, at 2921 N. Newstead.
WARD 4 #BPS116577 ZONE: “F” –
Neighborhood Commercial District
#AO476396-10

APPEAL #9524 – Appeal filed by City
Hospital Development Powerhouse LLC,
from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to complete
interior and exterior alterations for restaurants,
fitness center, gym and assembly hall, per
plans, at 1419 Carroll. (Cont) WARD 7
#AB475772-10 ZONE: “H” – Area
Commercial District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, June 3, 2010, on the following
conditional uses:

1826 LaSalle - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Nelson Construction (Construction/
Office Use Only) “B”-Two Family Dwelling

District. Te Ward 6
6832 Fyler - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Alcaraz, Inc. (Buy & Sell on Internet of
Firearms/Sales Rep./Office Use Only) “A”Single Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward
23
5018 Granberry - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Star’s Home Cooking (Catering-on
Site/Office Use Only) “C” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 1
3318 S. Compton - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Mobuks, Inc. (Business
Management/Photography/Writing/Sound
Mixing/Office Use Only) “B”-Two Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 20
4656 Dahlia - Home Occupancy WaiverS.D.P. Enterprise, Inc. (Mobile Mechanic/
Auto Repair/Office Use Only) “A” Single
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 13
2741 Shenandoah - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Under Bid Cleaning Service (Janitorial
Cleaning/Office Use Only) “C” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 7
4615 Macklind - #AO-478383-10 -The
Mack (Full Drink Bar & Restaurant/Sidewalk
Seating) “F”-Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 16
711-13 Soulard - #AO-478451-10Crossfit Gambit (Gym) “G”- Local
Commercial & Office District. Pmg Ward 7
1712 S. Tucker - #AO-478219-10-2001
Hair Designs (Beauty, Barber & Nail Salon/1st
Fl) “D”- Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Pmg Ward 7
5870 M. L. King - #AO-478199-10 Ali Market, Inc (Supermarket w/Deli/Cooking
& No Liquor) “G”-Local Commercial & Office
District. Pmg Ward 22

5067-69 Delmar - #AB478393-10 Anderson Design Consultants, LLC Construct
Parking Lot per Plans) “H” Area Commercial
District. Te Ward 18

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, June 10, 2010, on the following
conditional uses:

7332 Eugene Ave. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Personal Touch Senior Care, LLC
(Non-Medical Senior Services/Office Use
Only) “A”-Single Family Dwelling District.
Te Ward 11

5514 Rosa Ave. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Charmed Weddings-Coordinating
Services, LLC (Wedding Coordinating/Office

Use Only) “A”- Single Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 16
3747 Shreve - Home Occupancy Waiver
- McCraw Electric (Electrical Contracting/
Office Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 1
4008 Steffens Ave. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Quang Chau Lawn Service (Lawn
Care/Office Use Only) “A”-Single Family
Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 14
5757 Lisette - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Future Star, Inc. (Trucking/Office Use Only)
“A” Single Family Dwelling District. Mv
Ward 16
5345 Quincy - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Bulldog Window Cleaning (Window
Cleaning/Office Use Only) “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 12
3129 Lemp - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Hire a Hubby (Handyman Service/Office
Use Only) “C”-Multiple Family Dwelling
District. Pmg Ward 9
2907 S. Jefferson - #AO-478764-10 Tee Shirt Shop (Retail Sales/Caps/T-Shirts/
Graphic Design w/Decal Pressing) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg
Ward 9
3137 Meramec - #AO-477005-10Breaking Bread to Disciple Ministry, Inc.
(Outreach Ministry/Education Classes/
Community Development/1st fl/Office 2nd fl)
“F”- Neighborhood Commercial District. Mv
Ward 25
913 N. Garrison - #AO-478649-10 Academia Learning Center (Daycare/16
Infants/36 Children/2 ½ to 10years/M-F/6am
to 6pm/Fellowship Hall) “C”-Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Pmg Ward 19
5630 Theodosia - AO-478362-10 Kidz Learning Zone, LLC (Daycare/14
Infants/10 2 ½ to 12 years/Su.-Sa/6am to
Midn./1st fl /Office 2 fl) “C” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Mv Ward 22
1314 Tower Grove - #AO-477685-10 Lambs Bride Childcare Center (Before & After/
Summer Program/24 Children/6-12 years/
M-F/6am to 6pm) “F”-Neighborhood
Commercial District. Mv Ward 17
5511-13 Pershing - #AO-478631-10 Atlas Restaurant and Lunchroom (Restaurant/
w/Full Drink Bar/Sidewalk Seating/Change of
Ownership) “F”-Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 28
4946 Southwest - Incidental Waiver Creative Care Transportation (Transportation
Service) “F”- Neighborhood Commercial
District. Pmg Ward 8

6144 Delmar - Incidental Waiver - Pi
Camion, LLC (Pizza Catering Truck) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District. Pmg
Ward 28

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
Solicitation For Bids (SFB)
for
Overhead Door Services
SEALED BIDS WANTED

Bidding documents may be obtained at
Lambert St. Louis International Airport® Airport Properties Division, Monday
through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8174. This SFB
may also be obtained by visiting our website
at www.flystl.com (Click on “Business”).
Robert Salarano
Airport Properties Division Manager

INVITATIONTO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
160-001605 – Janitorial Supplies
160-001565 – Nylon Duty Holsters
160-001573 –
Prisoner Identification Wristbands
463-0043 –
Veterinary Services for 4 horses
160-001572 – White Bond Paper
160-001571 – Printer Toner Cartridges

Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, June 4, 2010 when they
will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must be
submitted may be obtained from the Office of
the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.

Contractor shall not discriminate in matters
of employment, upgrading, transfer, rates of
pay selection or otherwise, against any
employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the

contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.
The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at http://
www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.
Email must include vendor’s company name,
address, and description of bid.
Brad Turner
Purchasing Agent
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUESTS FOR
QUALIFICATIONS
City of St. Louis Port Authority
The City of St. Louis Port Authority is
seeking Statements of Qualifications from
firms interested in providing engineering
design and consulting services for the purpose
of enhancing its IP-based video surveillance
system in the Port District. This project is
funded by a Department of Homeland
Security grant through the 2009 American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act - Port
Security Grant Program. Responses will be
received until 3:00 PM on June 8, 2010 at
1015 Locust Street, Suite 1200, St. Louis, MO.
The RFQ is available at http://
stlouis.missouri.org. Click on “RFQs, RFPs
& Bids.”
Respondents must take affirmative
action to ensure that employees and
applicants for employment are not
discriminated against because of their race, sex,
marital status, color, age, religion, sexual
orientation, familial status, disability, national
origin or ancestry. A goal of 25% minorityowned business enterprise utilization and 5%
women-owned business enterprise utilization
will be sought for all work proposed on the
project.

PUBLIC NOTICE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
ST. LOUIS DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
REQUEST FOR STATEMENTS OF
QUALIFICATIONS
for
CIVIL ENGINEERING SERVICES
Issued May 18, 2010
Responses are due by 3 P.M. CDST,
Friday, June 18, 2010
The full version of this RFQ is available
at: http://stlouis.missouri.org/
development/otherprojects/rfp-rfq
The St. Louis Development
Corporation (SLDC) is seeking Statements of
Qualifications from civil engineering firms for
the purpose of establishing a “short list” of
prequalified firms from which SLDC and its
constituent agencies (Land Reutilization
Authority of the City of St. Louis (LRA), the
Port Authority of the City of St. Louis (Port),
Planned Industrial Expansion Authority of the
City of St. Louis (PIEA), and Land Clearance
for Redevelopment Authority of the City of

St. Louis (LCRA)) may secure civil
engineering services. The term of this
prequalification is expected to be 2-4 years.

For more information about this project,
please contact:
Dave Leake, Project Manager
St. Louis Development Corporation
1015 Locust Street, Suite 1200
St. Louis, MO 63101
314-259-3476
leaked@stlouiscity.com

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is MAY 28, 2010.

ELECTRICIAN FOREMAN
(Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®)
Prom. 1698
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$23.06 to $31.95 (Hourly Salary Range)

FORESTRY SUPERVISOR
Prom. 1697
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application
for the following examinations is JUNE 4,
2010.

LABORER
Prom./O.C. 1695
$23,712 to $35,022 (Annual Salary Range)

UTILITY WORKER
Prom./O.C. 1696
$25,714 to $38,038 (Annual Salary Range)

Applications for the following
examination will be accepted until a sufficient
number are received to fill the anticipated
vacancies. Please submit application as soon
as possible.

PARK RANGER (ARMED)
Prom./O.C.C. 1699
$27,924 to $41,418 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacations, Holidays, Sick Leave, Social
Security, and Employee Retirement System
Benefits privileges are provided in addition to
salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the city web site at
www.stlouiscity.com and link to Jobs with
the City.
Richard R. Frank,
Director

May 19, 2010

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and

Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
May 25, 2010 - ADVERTISED BIDS will be
received by the undersigned to be opened at
the office at 12:00 o'clock noon, for the items
listed below on the dates specified.

THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 2010
MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FOR
REQUISITION #860 FIRE APPARATUS,
100’ FT PLATFORM.
THE MEETING WILL BE AT
9:00AM, AT THE FIRE DEPT.
HEADQUARTERS, 1421 N. JEFFERSON
AVE., ST. LOUIS, MO 63106. VENDORS
MUST HAVE A REPRESENTATIVE
PRESENT AT THE MEETING IN ORDER
TO BID.

THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 2010
FIRE APPARATUS 100 FT
PLATFORM
for Equipment Services Division per Req.
#860. (SC)

EXTERIOR – 100% FLAT
ACRYLIC LATEX – WHITE IN 5 GALLON CONTAINER
for Operation Brightside per Req. #7. (BF)

Notice to All Suppliers
NOTE: It is the policy of the City of
St. Louis that all firms desiring to do business
with the City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Requesting a Bid
To have a bid mailed or faxed to you,
please contact the Supply Commissioner’s
office at (314) 622-4580.

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property

Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis.missouri.org

