The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2011-2012
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, January 13, 2012.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers January 13, 2012.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Triplett,
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard, Florida,
Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Schmid, French,
Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Williamson, Carter, Krewson
and President Reed. 26

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
None.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Ogilvie introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 246
An ordinance pertaining to commercial
semi-trailer trucks, also known as a semi’s, or
tractor-trailers; prohibiting such traffic during
certain hours along McCausland Ave. from
the north boundary of Southwest Avenue to
the south boundary of Wise Avenue,
exempting from said prohibition emergency
vehicles, including privately owned tow
trucks when providing emergency service to
non-commercial vehicles, and vehicles with a
Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) of less than
26,000 pounds and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Member Conway introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 247

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor, on the behalf of the City of St.
Louis, to submit all necessary applications
and to enter into agreements with Saint Louis
Effort for AIDS or any other agency (Grant #
Beacon Project) for the “AIDS United Access
to Care Social Innovation Fund” Program and
authorizing the Mayor, upon approval of the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to
expend any funds received by said grants to
fulfill the obligations of the grants, and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Member Young introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 248

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in 14
foot wide north/south alley in City Block 802
as bounded by Shenandoah, 13th, Lami and
Interstate 55 in the City of St. Louis, Missouri,
as hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Member Krewson introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 249
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate public surface rights
for vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel
in the westernmost 100 foot portion of the
15-20 foot wide east/west alley City Block
4906-A as bounded by Waterman, Lake,
Portland Place(private) and Union and also
known as Portland Court in the City of St.
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.
Board Member Davis introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 250
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in The
remaining 15 foot wide east/west alley and
the 22 foot wide north/south alley in City
Block 896 bounded by Olive, 18th, Pine and
19th in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
Board Bill No. 247.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
None
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.

Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bills No. 246, 248, 249 and 250.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Ms. Krewson of the Committee on
Ways and Means submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 13, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bill,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 228

An Ordinance Authorizing The
Execution Of A Transportation Project
Agreement Between The City And The 2118
Chouteau Transportation Development
District; Prescribing The Form And Details
Of Said Agreement; Making Certain Findings
With Respect Thereto; Authorizing Other
Related Actions In Connection With The
Transportation Project; And Containing A
Severability Clause.
Alderwoman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 225 and 237.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bills No. 201, 69, 182,
220 and 227.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Troupe, Flowers, Bosley, Moore,
Hubbard, Triplett, Young, Conway, Ortmann,
Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard,
Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Schmid, French,
Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Williamson, Carter, Krewson
and President Reed. 25
Noes: 0
Present: 0

Board Bill No. 201

An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Public Safety, on behalf of the
Mayor and the City of St. Louis, to enter into
and execute a Grant Agreement with the U. S.
Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice
Assistance, to fund the 2011 Justice
Assistance Grant Program, upon approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
and to expend funds by entering into contracts
or otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 69

An ordinance authorizing the City of St.
Louis (hereinafter, “City”), by and through
its Board of Public Service, to enter into an
Agreement with the Missouri Highways and
Transportation Commission (hereinafter,
“Commission”) for the Commission to remove
and replace the Jefferson Avenue Bridge Over
Interstate 64 and associated highway ramps
(hereinafter, “Project”) without cost to the
City.

Board Bill No. 182

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1)
Motard Ave. from Hickory to Rutger. 2) A
portion of the 15 foot wide east/west alley in
City Block 2181-S beginning at Motard and
extending westwardly 503.78 feet to a point
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 220

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in
Children’s Place from Kingshighway
eastwardly approximately 293.625 to a point
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 227
An ordinance authorizing the Director

of Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or
otherwise impede the flow of traffic at the
northernmost east/west alley bounded by
Penrose Park and Penrose Street at Euclid
Avenue and the northernmost east/west alley
bounded by Penrose Park and Penrose Street
at Aubert Avenue in the City of St. Louis,
Missouri.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, January 13, 2012.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
engrossed.

Board Bill No. 201
An Ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of Public Safety, on behalf of the
Mayor and the City of St. Louis, to enter into
and execute a Grant Agreement with the U. S.
Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice
Assistance, to fund the 2011 Justice
Assistance Grant Program, upon approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
and to expend funds by entering into contracts
or otherwise for grant purposes and containing
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 69
An ordinance authorizing the City of St.
Louis (hereinafter, “City”), by and through
its Board of Public Service, to enter into an
Agreement with the Missouri Highways and
Transportation Commission (hereinafter,
“Commission”) for the Commission to remove
and replace the Jefferson Avenue Bridge Over
Interstate 64 and associated highway ramps
(hereinafter, “Project”) without cost to the
City.

Board Bill No. 182
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1)
Motard Ave. from Hickory to Rutger. 2) A
portion of the 15 foot wide east/west alley in
City Block 2181-S beginning at Motard and
extending westwardly 503.78 feet to a point
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with

Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 220

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in
Children’s Place from Kingshighway
eastwardly approximately 293.625 to a point
in the City of St. Louis, Missouri, as
hereinafter described, in accordance with
Charter authority, and in conformity with
Section l4 of Article XXI of the Charter and
imposing certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 227

An ordinance authorizing the Director
of Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or
otherwise impede the flow of traffic at the
northernmost east/west alley bounded by
Penrose Park and Penrose Street at Euclid
Avenue and the northernmost east/west alley
bounded by Penrose Park and Penrose Street
at Aubert Avenue in the City of St. Louis,
Missouri.
Alderman Vollmer
Chairman of the Committee

Board Bills Numbered 201, 69, 182, 220
and 227 were read and all other business being
suspended, Mr. Reed, in the presence of the
Board and in open session, affixed his signature
in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR

President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 284 through No. 287 and No. 290 through
No. 292 and the Clerk was instructed to read
same.

Resolution No. 284

Lieutenant Colonel Antoinette Filla
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
after 38 years of committed service to the
City of St. Louis, Lieutenant Colonel
Antoinette Filla, Deputy Chief, Commander
of the Bureau of Criminal Investigation and
Support is retiring; and

WHEREAS, Lt. Col. Antoinette Filla
joined the Metropolitan Police Department
on September 24, 1973, as a civilian clerk. On
March 18, 1974, she was sworn in as a
commissioned police officer. Lt. Col. Filla
began her career as a Police Officer in the
Mobile Reserve Unit and Eighth District; and

WHEREAS, in January of 1984, Lt. Col.
Filla was promoted to the rank of Sergeant.
As a Sergeant, she served in the Third District,
Juvenile Division and in Sex Crimes and Child

Abuse; and

WHEREAS, Lt. Col. Filla became the
first female in the history of the Department
to serve as a Lieutenant when she was
promoted to the rank in June of 1987. Lt. Col.
Filla served in the Ninth District for five years
following her promotion. She also worked in
the Traffic Safety Unit; and
WHEREAS, continuing the trend of
being the first female to break several
Department barriers, Lt. Col. Filla was
promoted to the rank of Captain in October
of 1993. Lt. Col. Filla served as a Captain for
14 years in a variety of command positions
including Commander of the First and Eighth
Districts and Internal Affairs; and
WHEREAS, as a Captain, Lt. Col. Filla
was assigned to the position of Secretary to
the Board of Police Commissioners from
November of 2003 to July of 2005. She also
served as Commander of the Fourth District
during her time as Captain; and
WHEREAS, in February of 2007, Lt.
Col. Filla was promoted to the rank of Major.
She served as the Assistant Chief of Detectives
in the Bureau of Criminal Investigations and
Commander of the South Patrol Division; and
WHEREAS, Lt. Col. Filla served as
Commander of the Bureau of Community
Policing from January of 2009 until assuming
her current position in March of 2011; and
WHEREAS,
throughout
her
distinguished career at the Department, Lt.
Col. Filla has received eight Chief’s Letters of
Commendation honoring her skilled work in
law enforcement; and
WHEREAS, Lt. Col. Filla earned a
Master of Science in Justice Administration
from Lindenwood University and a Bachelor
of Justice Administration from Tarkio College.
She is also a graduate of the FBI National
Academy.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Lt. Col.
Antoinette Filla for 38 years of dedicated
service to the City of St. Louis and we wish
her peace and happiness in her retirement and
we direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a
copy of this Resolution across the minutes of
these proceedings and to further prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:

Honorable KennethA. Ortmann,Alderman 9thWard
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rd Ward
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward
HonorableTammika Hubbard,Alderwoman 5thWard
Honorable Kacie StarrTriplett,Alderwoman 6thWard
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8th Ward
Honorable Joseph Vollmer,Alderman 10th Ward
Honorable Thomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12th Ward
HonorableAlfred Wessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14th Ward
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17th Ward
HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward
Honorable Marlene E. Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20th Ward
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21st Ward
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Honorable Joseph Vaccaro,Alderman 23rd Ward
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24th Ward
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25th Ward
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward
Honorable Gregory J. Carter,Alderman 27th Ward
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 285
Nicki Dwyer
WHEREAS, the Polk Award is
presented to the individual resident that has
consistently provided value added
contributions to the enhancement of the
Central West End community; and
WHEREAS, Jim and Nicki moved to an
apartment at 4618 McPherson after they were
married in 1967. That’s when the CWE was
known as the “wild west” and it certainly
lived up to its reputation; and
WHEREAS, Nicki’s community
involvement began in those early years when
she discovered that the Parks Department was
offering to plant sidewalk trees for $10 each.
She collected enough money for 7 trees from
the neighbors; and
WHEREAS, Jim and Nicki renovated a
house on Lenox Place where they raised three
children. When their youngest was four she
sold advertising for a wonderful group of
women who started the West End Word. That
morphed into writing a column about
neighborhood shops and restaurants, and later
a cooking column; and
WHEREAS, for the past eight years
Nicki has been managing the Pierce Arrow
Building on Washington as well as a couple of
small buildings at the corner of Euclid and
Washington. She also volunteers to deliver

Meals on Wheels for Trinity Church once a
week; and

WHEREAS, when Nicki moved to
Maryland Plaza she realized that many of her
neighbors were new to the CWE and she
became the “go to” person for questions about
where to find activities, community
involvement projects, contacts, etc. So Nicki
decided to turn her wealth of Central West
End information into a blog. That was two
years and 500 plus posts ago. Her hard work,
passion, and dedication to the neighborhood
can be referenced at her web-site http://
nickidwyer.typepad.com/; and

WHEREAS, Nicki is truly one of the
icons that have contributed immensely to the
growth and development of the CWE
neighborhood.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Nicki Dwyer on
receiving the Central West End Association
Polk Award and thank her for her many
contributions to the City of Saint Louis and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 6th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 286

Third Degree Glass
WHEREAS, the Renaissance Award is
presented to the commercial business that has
consistently provided value added
contributions to the enhancement of the
Central West End community; and

WHEREAS, Third Degree Glass
Factory is St. Louis’ largest public-access glass
art education center. Every day they introduce
people to the magical process of creating glass
art. Their staff, instructors, and volunteers
are experienced, educated and committed to
providing quality classes and programs.
Through the studio rental program, artists
hone skills and create glass art. By fostering
camaraderie among glass artists, they are
developing a glass art community and enriching
the arts; and

WHEREAS, Jim McKelvey and Doug
Auer established Third Degree in 2002.
Located in what once was an abandoned 1930s
service station, McKelvey and Auer with
assistance from aspiring glass artists, turned

the dilapidated structure into a state-of-theart glass facility with over 12,000 square feet
of usable space. By renovating the building
and providing classes and events during day
and evening hours, Third Degree has become
an anchor of the neighborhood. They have
successfully improved one of the rougher
edges of the neighborhood - urban pioneers of
sorts; and
WHEREAS, Third Degree promotes
contemporary glass art through education,
studio facility rental for artists and students,
glass created by TDGF artists for sale in
gallery shop; and event venue rental for parties
and corporate events; and
WHEREAS, their 3rd Fridays draws
people from all over the region, many of whom
would not have considered stepping onto this
stretch of Delmar just a few years ago. They
provide an eclectic mix to the neighborhood.
They took on a substantial risk when so many
were abandoning the area.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Third Degree
Glass on receiving the Central West End
Association Renaissance Award and thank
them for their many contributions to the City
of Saint Louis and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 6th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 287
Dr. Donald Brennan
WHEREAS, Donald Brennan was
involved with St. Louis University for 40
years as an alumnus, professor and
administrator; receiving his bachelor’s and
master’s degrees in communication disorders
in 1967 and 1969 from the university and later
his Ph.D. from the University of Oklahoma
Medical Center in 1974; and
WHEREAS, Donald excelled in soccer
being a team member of the 1964, 1965 and
1966 Billiken soccer teams, in 1965 the
Billikens won the National Championship and
took third place in the NCAA Tournament in
1964. Donald was co-captain of the 1966 team
and in 1998 was nominated to SLU’s Athletic
Hall of Fame; and
WHEREAS, Donald served his country

in the U.S. Air Force from 1968 until honorable
discharge in 1971 at the rank of captain; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Brennan returned to
Saint Louis University as an assistant
professor in the Department of
Communication Sciences and Disorders,
moved on to the assistant chairman of the
department in 1978 and chair in 1981, in 1988
he became dean of the Graduate School and
Associate Provost for Research, later the dean
of the College of Arts and Sciences and
continued teaching in 2010; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Brennan served at
numerous community clinical facilities and
hospitals in his area of expertise as well as
receiving numerous awards from both
professional and community organizations
including the Leadership in Education Award.
He was mentioned in many publications and
generated more than $5 million in grants to
Saint Louis University and was influential in
developing an emphasis in multicultural
education and diversity at the school; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Brennan is survived by
his wife Marty, an instructor in the
department of communication sciences and
disorders; daughter Laura, son-in-law Ben
Kloos, granddaughters Madeline, Erin, Kate,
Emily and close family friend, Brad Ackman.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
contributions of Dr. Donald Brennan to the
citizens of the City of St. Louis and we join
with his many friends in expressing our sorrow
at his passing, and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a memorial copy
for presentation to the Brennan family, at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 290
The Joint Venture of Cote Brilliante
Presbyterian Church and Central
Reform Congregation
WHEREAS,
Cote
Brilliante
Presbyterian Church and Central Reform
Congregation are celebrating the 20th
Anniversary of their Joint Venture; and
WHEREAS, this Joint Venture began
after their first shared Dr. Martin Luther King
Service which was led by Reverend William
G. Gillespie of CBPC and Rabbi Susan Talve

of CRC; and

WHEREAS, this Joint Venture was
instituted by CRC’s Chris Hexter and CBPC’s
Daisy Bowden and Dr. Ivory Johnson; and

WHEREAS, this Joint Venture has
remained committed to creating a more
inclusive
community,
improving
communication and cooperation among
different people, building relationships with
people who are different from each of us and
fighting the city’s problems; and

WHEREAS, this Joint Venture has
facilitated in encouraging members of the
congregations to connect; and

WHEREAS, both congregations have
joined in building a home for Habitat for
Humanity, both are jointly involved in the
Grace Hill Neighborhood Winterization
Project as well as both congregations work
on a variety of programs at the St. Louis City
Juvenile Detention Center; and

WHEREAS, in 1996 CPBC’s Jesse C.
Swanigan and CRC’s Phillip Deitch became
Co-Chairpersons and led the congregation in
a six month diversity training program which
evolved into the Dialogue Group that meets
monthly; and

WHEREAS, both congregations have
deepened their understanding of racism and
anti-Semitism; and

WHEREAS, both congregations pledge
on this 20th anniversary to stay committed
to joint action, being willing to try new ways
to achieve improved inter-racial and interreligious relations.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the 20th
Anniversary of the Joint Venture of Cote
Brilliante Presbyterian Church and Central
Reform Congregation and thank them for their
contributions to the city and direct the Clerk
of this Board to prepare a commemorative
copy of this resolution to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the sponsor.

Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:

Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 291

Jim McLeod
WHEREAS, we pause to recognize Jim
McLeod for his many years of service to the
community; and
WHEREAS, Jim was President of the

Skinker DeBaliviere Community Council in
early 1980’s; and
WHEREAS, Jim fully appreciated the
many diversities of Skinker DeBaliviere: age,
income, race. He always spoke of neighbors,
not residents, and believed in neighbor helping
neighbor; and
WHEREAS, Jim was Washington
University’s representative to SDCC; and
WHEREAS, Jim was Chair of the
Advisory Council of New City School; and
WHEREAS, he became increasing
important as the administrator who advised
Chancellor Wrighton, He also directed the
African American Studies Program, served as
the undergraduate dean and created programs
to increase student diversity.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Jim McLeod and
thank him for his many contributions to the
City of Saint Louis and we further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Resolution No. 292
Calvin B. Stuart
WHEREAS, we pause to recognize
Calvin B. Stuart for his many years of service
to the community; and
WHEREAS, Calvin B. Stuart, former
president of the Skinker- DeBaliviere
Community Council in 1970, was appointed
executive director of the Council in February
1971; and
WHEREAS, he assisted in the ongoing
improvement of the SDCC neighborhood
through McPherson Management Company
and also served on the West End Town House
Board; and
WHEREAS, he worked with City of St.
Louis, SDCC neighbors and the aldermen to
keep a finger on the pulse of the neighborhood
and to identify, assess, and resolve immediate
concerns; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Stuart was committed
to having the Skinker-DeBaliviere Community
Council continue to work with encouragement
of business and commercial ventures in those

areas zoned for this activity.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of Saint Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Calvin B. Stuart and
thank him for his many contributions to the
City of Saint Louis and we further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 284 through No.
287 and No. 290 through No. 292 stood
considered.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 284 through No. 287 and No. 290 through
No. 292 were adopted, at this meeting of the
Board.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution
No. 288 and the Clerk was instructed to read
same.

Resolution No. 288
TO APPROVE THE CATHEDRAL
SQUARE SPECIAL BUSINESS
DISTRICT BUDGET
WHEREAS, Cathedral Square Special
Business District established by Ordinance
Number 63777, approved June 4, 1996 is
required under Section 7 thereof to file with
the Board of Aldermen its annual budget for
the funds collected by the Collector of
Revenue; and
WHEREAS,
the
Board
of
Commissioners of said District has met to
consider the budgetary requirements of the
Special Business District; and
WHEREAS, said Board of
Commissioners hereby submits the following
budget for the year beginning January 1, 2012
and ending December 31, 2012 for
consideration and approval by this Honorable
Board of Aldermen:

CATHEDRAL SQUARE SPECIAL
BUSINESS DISTRICT
2012 BUDGET
CARRYOVER FROM 2011

$100,000.00

REVENUE EXPECTED
Tax Revenue
Donations
Interest
TOTAL INCOME

$198,000.00
0
$100.00
$198,100.00

EXPENSES EXPECTED
Security
Patrols
$144,000.00
Security Cameras/GPS $2,400.00
Neighborhood Improvements
Traffic Calming Project
(Westminster and Newstead)
Traffic Calming Project
(Maryland)
Additional Security Measures
(Under Consideration)
Snow Removal
Light Cleaning
Garden/Fence Maintenance
Communications
Insurance
Miscellaneous
EXPENSES
EXPECTED BALANCE

0
$20,000.00
$45,000.00
$12,000.00
$1,000.00
$10,000.00
$2,500.00
$1,200.00
$1000.00
$239,100.00
$59,000.00

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of
Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget
is hereby approved.

Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 288 stood
considered.

Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution
No. 288 be adopted, at this meeting of the
Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Williamson introduced Resolution
No. 289 and the Clerk was instructed to read
same.

Resolution No. 289

The Community Action Agency of
St. Louis County (CAASTLC)
WHEREAS, the Community Action
Agency of St. Louis County (CAASTLC)
was asked by the State, in accordance with
the CSBG law to provide interim services to
the City of St. Louis and Wellston, Effective

October 1, 2011 due to its experience and
geographic proximity to the City; and
WHEREAS, CAASTLC immediately
established its City Services Division, which
has opened three offices within the City of
St. Louis, located at 2012 Martin Luther King,
6827 S. Broadway and 5935 Horton; and is
working in partnership with the St. Louis Full
Service Public Schools, the United Way and
many other organizations and businesses
within the City; and these locations are
providing vital services to residents of St. Louis
City; and
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis has
an estimated 88,000 individuals living in
poverty and potentially in need of services;
and
WHEREAS, since 1964 there has been
an “eligible entity,” Community Action
Agency designated to provide such services
and receive funds as outlined in the
Community Services Block Grant in the City
of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, the closing of the
Community Action Agency in St. Louis City,
HDC, left many families in the City of St.
Louis without access to vital services, and the
City without a designated Community Action
Agency; and
WHEREAS, CAASTLC has formed an
advisory board composed of City elected
officials, low-income residents of the City,
and other agencies and area businesses
operating within the City with knowledge of
community needs; has developed a leadership
staff of Community Action professionals who
have worked and lived in the City for more
than 30 years with and have experience with
the challenges low income residents face and
knowledge of how to deliver services to the
city population; and
WHEREAS, CAASTLC has affirmed
that low-income residents of the City of St.
Louis will fully benefit from all CSBG funds
allocated for the City of St. Louis citizens and
that this management model will achieve
efficiency by sharing and not duplicating
administrative expenses.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we hereby support
the Community Action Agency of St. Louis
County and its City Services Division in its
efforts to become the “eligible entity”
Community Action Agency for the city of St.
Louis and receive CSBG funding to provide
services to City residents.
Introduced on the 13th day of January, 2012

by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward
Mr. Williamson moved that Resolution
No. 289 be referred to the Legislation
Committee.
Seconded by Mr. Kennedy.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Krewson introduced Resolution
No. 276 and the Clerk was instructed to read
same.

Resolution No. 276
WHEREAS, The Office of the Assessor
of the City of St. Louis had completed its
reassessment of all real property located in
the City of St. Louis as required by state
statute and the State Tax Commission; and
WHEREAS, section 137.115 RSMo.
provides for the maintenance of up-dated
assessments on an on-going basis pursuant to
an assessment and equalization maintenance
plan adopted by the local assessor; and
WHEREAS, under and by the authority
of section 137.115 RSMo., the governing body
of the City of St. Louis is required to approve
such assessment and equalization maintenance
plan for the maintenance of updated
assessments; and
WHEREAS, the proposed maintenance
plan for the City of St. Louis for the period of
January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013
has been prepared and is available for public
inspection in the office of the Clerk of the
Board of Aldermen.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that the assessment and
equalization maintenance plan prepared by
the Assessor is hereby approved as required
by law.
Introduced on the 6th day of January, 2012
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen
Ms. Krewson moved that Resolution
No. 276 be adopted at this meeting of the
Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Davis, Mr. Boyd and Mr. Cohn
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return January 20, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - January 17, 2012
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Siedhoff, Bryson and President Bradley.
Absent: Directors Bess and Rice-Walker.
(excused)

Requests of the Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Forestry and Health and
Hospitals to be excused from the Regular
Meeting of January 17, 2012 were read and
leaves of absence granted.

Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
January 10, 2012 were unanimously
approved.

Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and the Board set
date of February 28, 2012 for opening bids
for work and Secretary instructed to insert
proper advertisement therefore:

Letting No. 8501 - Furnish all labor,
tools, materials, equipment, and supervision
necessary for concrete replacement due to
City of St. Louis Water Division Maintenance
and Construction 2012.

Proposed contracts and bonds ordered
approved as follows:

Letting No. 8494 - Checked Baggage
Inspection System (CBIS) Program,CBIS
General Building Renovations, Terminal 1 and
Terminal 2, Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport®, C. Rallo Hunt, 5000 Kemper
Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63139, Contract No.
19851.

Letting No. 8495 - Checked Baggage
Inspection System (CBIS) Program, CBIS
Baggage Systems, Terminal 1 and Terminal 2,
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®, The
Horsley Company, 1630 So. 48th Suite D,
Salt Lake, Utah 84104, Contract No. 19852.

Addendum No. 1 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8498 Residential Sound Insulation Program Part 57
at Lambert-St. Lois International Airport®
approved and made part of the original plans.

Addendum No. 1 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8499 - Tandy
Park Tuskegee Airmen Field Concession Stand,
Press Box, Storage Building approved and
made part of the original plans.

Addendum No. 2 to the plans and
specifications for Letting No. 8500 Improvements to Police Facilities Replacement of Roof at 1915 Olive approved
and made part of the original plans.

Supplemental Agreement No. 6 to PSA
No. 1032 - Open-Ended Civil, Structural,
Surveying, Geotechnical, Estimating and
Drafting Services at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® approved and
President authorized to execute same.

Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to PSA
No. 1090 - West Florissant Avenue Signal
Interconnect/Upgrade approved and President
authorized to execute same.

Supplemental Agreement No. 1 to PSA
No. 1106 - Dwight Davis Park Improvement
Project approved and President authorized to
execute same.

Supplemental Agreement No. 3 to PSA
1043 - Program Management Consultant
Services for the Airport Experience Program,
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
approved and President authorized to execute
same.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 118054, 1808
Washington Avenue Building Corporation,
encroach with loading dock at rear of 1808
Washington on the St. Charles side and,
118068, LSRC (Lafayette Square Restoration
Committee), mount solar powered CCTV
camera on an existing City pole located by
1727 Carol. Unit will consist of solar panel,

CCTV camera, WiFi unit, NEMA enclosure,
deep cell battery and solar power converter.
Application No. 118033, O’Fallon
Community Organization, paint street
dividers and utility boxes with artwork at 4100
Lee, 4275 Red Bud, 4400 Fair, 4263 Clarence,
4126 Fair and the northeast corner of Fair and
Natural Bridge ordered denied by reason of
the fact that the requested utility boxes do
not belong to the City and the street dividers
would not remain highly reflective if painted.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY
7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,
per Board Order No. 766: 118079, 4110 West
Belle, heating and cooling business (office use
only) home occupancy wavier, 118080, 6124
A Dewey, painting business (office use only)
home occupancy wavier, 118081, 3821
Potomac, trucking business (office use only)
home occupancy wavier, 118082, 2820
Goodfellow, sit down, carryout restaurant
with banquet hall and consumption of liquor,
118083, 6827 So. Broadway, community
office, work shop in the middle part of the
building, 118084, 6417-19 Hampton, sit
down, carryout restaurant with full drink bar,
118085, 2724 Watson, gas, convenience store
with 5% liquor and cooking.
Agenda Items for January 17, 2012
ordered approved.
The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
January 24, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
February 28, 2012, St. Louis, Missouri time,
at which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
LETTING NO. 8501
JOB TITLE: Concrete Replacement due
to City of St. Louis Water Division
Maintenance and Construction at City
Water Division Distribution Pipeyard
DEPOSIT: $7,100.00
Contract documents and general

information may be obtained in the Water
Division Pipeyard Distribution Office,
4600 McRee Ave., St. Louis, Missouri
63110, from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday
through Friday and upon payment of thirtyfive dollars ($35.00) for each package.
Purchased sets become the property of the
prospective bidder and no refunds will be
made. Information concerning this project
may be obtained by telephoning (314) 6339029

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall.

Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.

“The City of St. Louis hereby notifies
all bidders that it will affirmatively insure that
in any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises

will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color or national origin in consideration for an
award.”

The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the

Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1986.
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
January 17, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 1, 2012 in Room 208
City Hall to conisder the following:
APPEAL #9919 - Appeal filed by AAA
Checkmate LLC, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a financial loan company at 5606
Delmar. WARD 26 #AO491399-11 ZONE:
“H” – Area Commercial District
APPEAL #9920 - Appeal filed by
Brother Loan & Finance LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a
financial loan company at 5608 Delmar.
WARD 26 #AO491401-11 ZONE: “H” –
Area Commercial District
APPEAL #9921 - Appeal filed by Crystal
Loans LLC, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a financial loan company at 5610
Delmar. WARD 26 #AO491402-11 ZONE:
“H” – Area Commercial District

APPEAL #9922 - Appeal filed by Tami
Scott Make Up and Hair Studio, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a hair,
make-up studio with retail sales of products
and 22% alcohol at 2027 S. 11 th Street.
WARD 7 #AO495079-11 ZONE: “D” –

Multiple Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #9923 - Appeal filed by
Emmanuel Rooming House, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a rooming
house for 30 beds (1st floor east and north
wings and 1st floor west wing with 1-4 rooms)
at 4518 Blair. WARD 3 #AO494306-11
ZONE: “B” – Two Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #9924 – Appeal filed by Bill
Yount Signs, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
replace face only on existing illuminated
ground sign, per plans, at 2724 Watson Rd.
WARD 24 #AB495210-11 ZONE: “F” –
Neighborhood Commercial District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 8, 2012 in Room 208
City Hall to conisder the following:
APPEAL #9925 - Appeal filed by Rebirth
Bikes LLC, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a motorcycle repair shop with retail
sales at 3409 Roger. WARD 15 #AO49426311 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District
APPEAL #9926 - Appeal filed by
Catholic Charities Community Services, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a
social services facility at 1018 Baden. WARD
2 #AO495135-11 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #9927 - Appeal filed by Louis
Auto Radiator and A C Service, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto
repair business (no body work or storage) at
6319 Lillian. WARD 27 #AO494836-11
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
APPEAL #9928 - Appeal filed by
Salam’s Tire & Auto Service, from the

determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
auto sales and repair business, no body work
and a tire sales & repair business at 2616 N.
Florissant. WARD 5 #AO495246-11
ZONE: “G” – Local Commercial & Office
District

APPEAL #9929 - Appeal filed by
Sweetie Pie’s Upper Crust LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to install one illuminated wall
sign and one illuminated projecting sign, per
plans, at 3643-53 Delmar. WARD 19
#AB495412-11 ZONE: “H” – Area
Commercial District

APPEAL #9882 – Appeal filed by The
Acts Partnership, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate an office, community center and
rental hall at 4443-49 Red Bud. (Table)
WARD 21 #AO494131-11 ZONE: “B” –
Two Family Dwelling District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 2, 2012 on the following
conditional uses:

3948a Wilmington - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Corley Contracting (Tuck pointing/
Masonry/Office Use Only) “B” Two Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 13

3708 Fairview - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Devin La Rue (Audio/Visual/
Production Services/Office Use Only) “ B ”
Two Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 15

4327 Cote Brilliante - Home
Occupancy Waiver - G A & P Design &
Construction (General Contractor/Office Use
Only) “C” Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Db Ward 4

1711 S. 8 th St. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Tim Kippenberger (General
Contracting/Office Use Only) “D” Multiple
Family Dwelling District. Db Ward 7

3509 N. 14 th - #AO-495474-12Growing Kids Academy, LLC (Daycare/28
Children/24 Infants/4 2 ½ to 5 yrs./Mon.-Sun./

6a.m. to 9p.m./Cooking) “C” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 3

6255 Wydown - #AO-495375-11Forsyth School (Elementary School/K-6 th
Grade) “A” Single Family Dwelling District.
Te Ward 28
2903 S. Jefferson - #AO-495398-11 Mayers Bakery (Full Drink Bar/1st fl/No
Cooking) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 9

5121 Delmar Blvd. - #AB-495364-11Interstate Blood Bank (Construct Commercial
Bldg. per plans for Office/Medical/Zoning
Only) “H” Area Commercial District. Te
Ward 18

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, February 9, 2012 on the following
conditional uses:
1109 Walton - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Donald Williams (Hauling/Office Use Only)
“B” Two Family Dwelling District. Db Ward
18
6223 Simpson - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Nea Construction Services, LLC
(General Contractor/Office Use Only) “A”
Single Family Dwelling District. Db Ward
24
4526 Morganford - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Arch Heating & Air Conditioning
(Heating & Cooling Service/Office Use Only)
“F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Db
Ward 14
5716 Saloma - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Amazing Grace Enterprise (Casket Sales/
Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 27
1051-53 Hampton - #AO-495612-12Hampton Mobil (Gas/Convenience Store/Full
Package Liquor) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Db Ward 24

1425 Hodiamont - #AO-495408-11 - A
Childs World Child Development Center
(Daycare/12 Infants/Sun.-Sat./6am to 2am/No
Cooking/1 st fl Only) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 22
6113 Ridge - AO-495404-11 - A Childs
World II Child Development Center (Daycare/
31 Children/2 ½ to 12 yrs./Sun-Sat./6am to
2am/No Cooking/2nd fl) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 22
1423 Hodiamont - #AO-495406-11 A Childs World Child Development Center

Daycare/8 Infants/Sun- Sat/6am to 2am/No
Cooking/1 st fl Only) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 22

REQUEST FOR BIDS
Bids for Soda/Beverage Vending contract
for city owned locations within the City of
St. Louis will be received by the Comptroller’s
Office, City of St. Louis, 1200 Market St. Room 311, St. Louis, MO 63103 until 11 a.m.
CST, FEBRUARY 2, 2012. Contract will
commence MARCH 1, 2012. Bid packet may
be obtained at above address. The City
reserves the right to reject any and all bids,
waive informalities in the bidding and accept
the bid deemed in the best interest of the City.
Further information may be obtained by
calling Judy Armstrong at 314-622-4541.

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY
The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified
organizations to submit Proposals to provide
week long summer camp instruction for St.
Louis City youth ages 8-15. Examples of
programs includes, but are not limited to,
baseball, softball, basketball, football, golf,
tennis, soccer, track, theater.
The Request for Proposals may be
obtained at the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Forestry, 5600 Clayton in
Forest Park, St. Louis, MO 63110,
commencing January 5, 2012.
Sealed proposals will be received
until 4:00 P.M. on Friday, February 3, 2012
at the Department of Parks.
The City of St. Louis is an Equal
opportunity Employer, and Respondents
shall comply with the Mayor’s Executive
Order #28, as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this bid in part or in its entirety.

INVITATIONTO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
160-001846 – White Bond
160-001818 –
Holsters Model G&G B720A
Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police

Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, February 3, 2012 when
they will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must be
submitted may be obtained from the Office of
the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.

Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.

The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.
Email must include vendor’s company
name, address, and description of bid.
Purchasing Division
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY

The City of St. Louis is seeking the
services of a qualified company to provide
hazard tree removal services on private
property.

The Request For Proposals may be
obtained at the Forestry Division, 1415 N.
13 th Street, St. Louis, MO 63106,
commencing Tuesday, January 17, 2012.

Sealed proposals will be received
until 4:00 P.M. on Friday, February 10, 2012
at the Forestry Division.

The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Respondents
shall comply with the Mayor’s Executive
Order 28, as amended.

The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this bid in part or in its entirety.

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an applications
for the following examinations is FEBRUARY
3, 2012,

PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER I
Prom./O.C. 1868
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)

WATER MAINTENANCE FOREMAN
Prom. 1870
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)

$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)
The last date for filing applications for
the following examinations is FEBRUARY 10,
2012.

FLEET MAINTENANCE PARTS
SPECIALIST
Prom./O.C. 1867
$29,094 to $46,098 (Annual Salary Range)

VIDEO PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
Prom./O.C. 1869
$18.50 to $25.30 (Hourly Pay Range
- Per Performance)
$36,478 to $57,902 (Annual Salary Range
– Full-Time)
Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.
Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
January 18, 2012

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS
CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a

contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER

Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
JANUARY 24, 2012 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

TUESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2012
WATER COOLER
for Equipment Services per Req. #68. (BF)

SNOW THROWER
for Street Division per Req. #118. (LC)

STEEL, COLD ROLLED
for Water Division per Req. #1414. (BF)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will

offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids

To download bids log on to:
http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm
then, search available bids.

You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property

Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

