The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2012-2013
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, June 15, 2012.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers June 15, 2012.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Flowers, Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Triplett,
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Arnowitz, Wessels, Howard, Florida,
Baringer, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,
Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 28

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for June 1, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

I wish to report that on the 15th day of

June, 2012, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 14

An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters
of St. Louis City on August 2, 1994, pursuant
to Ordinance 63168 creating the “City Public
Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund” directing the
Treasurer of the City of St. Louis to deposit
funds received pursuant to said sales tax into
the “City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund
- Account ONE” appropriating $9,975,000
from the said sales tax for the period herein
stated to the Bi-State Development Agency
for certain purposes; providing for the
payment of such funds during the period July
1, 2012 through, June 30, 2013; further
providing that in no event shall the
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer
for an amount greater than the amounts of the
proceeds deposited in the “City Public Transit
Sales Tax Trust Fund” during the period of
July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013; and
containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 15

An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters
of St. Louis City on November 4, 1997,
pursuant to Ordinance 64111 creating the
“City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund”
directing the Treasurer of the City of St. Louis
to deposit funds received pursuant to said
sales tax into the “City Public Transit Sales
Tax Trust Fund - Account TWO”
appropriating $9,975,000 from the said sales
tax for the period herein stated to the Bi-State
Development Agency for certain purposes;
providing for the payment of such funds
during the period July 1, 2012 through, June
30, 2013; further providing that in no event
shall the Comptroller draw warrants on the
Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amounts of the proceeds deposited in the
“City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund”
during the period of July 1, 2012 through June
30, 2013; and containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 16

An ordinance appropriating the sum of
$19,950,000, as described and defined in
Section 94.600 through 94.655, R.S. Mo. 2000
as amended for the period herein stated, which
sum is hereby appropriated out of the
“Transportation Trust Fund” to the Bi-State
Development Agency for transportation
purposes; and further providing that the
appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State
Development Agency supplying the Board

of Estimate and Apportionment an annual
evaluation report; further providing that in no
event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on
the Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amount of proceeds deposited in the
“Transportation Trust Fund” during the
period from July 1, 2012 through June 30,
2013; providing for the appropriation to be
reduced if certain funds are used for other than
public transit purposes; further providing that
the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State
requiring the payment of prevailing wages and
benefits to employees of outside service
contractors; and containing a severability
clause.
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
June 5, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Board Members:
I have the honor to return to you
herewith Board Bill Nos. 39, 44, 45 and 50
with my approval endorsed thereon. These
board bills have an emergency clause.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
June 5, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Board Members:
I return to you herewith Board Bill No.
35 with my disapproval endorsed thereon.
This bill does not have an emergency clause.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS

Board Member Triplett introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 98

An ordinance authorizing the execution
of an intergovernmental cooperation
agreement between the city and the 1601 S.
Jefferson Community Improvement District
prescribing the form and details of said
agreement; making certain findings with respect
thereto; authorizing certain other actions of
city officials; and containing a severability
clause.

Board Member Boyd introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 99

An ordinance establishing a four way
stop site for all traffic approaching the
intersection of Penrose Avenue and Darby
Street and containing an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
None.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bill No. 99.

Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bill No. 98.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Carter of the Committee on Public
Safety submitted the following report which
was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
June 15, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Public Safety to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 12
(Committee Substitute/
As Amended)

An Ordinance establishing the
Firefighters’ Retirement Plan of the City of
St. Louis; providing retirement, disability and
death benefits for the firefighters of the City
and their covered dependents, including
severability and effective date clauses, and
provisions pertaining to the repeal of Chapter
4.18 of the Revised Code of the City of St.
Louis and the ordinances referenced therein,
relating to The Firemen’s Retirement System
of St. Louis.

Board Bill No. 32

An Ordinance which amends Ordinance
68536, Section Seven, paragraph 14.06.250(A)
and Section Nine, paragraph 14.08.190 of the
Excise Code of the City of St. Louis, to clarify
that premises where motor vehicle service
stations exist are limited to five percent (5.0%)
package licenses; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 52

An Ordinance pertaining to sun screening
devices applied to the windshield or windows
of motor vehicles; and containing a penalty,
severability and emergency clause.
Alderman Carter
Chairman of the Committee

Mr. Bosley of the Committee on Streets,
Traffic and Refuse submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
June 15, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Streets, Traffic and
Refuse to whom was referred the following

Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 54
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate the 3800 block
of Clarence Avenue as “Rev. Robert D. Strong,
Sr. Avenue.”

Board Bill No. 56
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate the 1500 block
of Penrose Avenue as “Pastor Emeritus Charlie
Dooley Avenue.”
Board Member Vaccaro introduced by
request:
Alderman Bosley
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
June 15, 2012.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 87
An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
ratifying and adopting the actions of the
Mayor and the Comptroller of the City of St.
Louis (the “City”), the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), in accepting and executing on
behalf of the City a certain grant agreement
offered by the United States of America (the
“Grant Agreement”), acting through the
Federal Aviation Administration of the United
States Department of Transportation, the
Grant Agreement being for Project Number 329-0085-132-2012, dated May 15, 2012, for
a maximum federal obligation of Twelve
Million Seven Hundred Sixty Three Thousand
Eight Hundred Sixty Three Dollars
($12,763,863), which is filed in the Office of
the City Register [Comptroller Document No.
64082], for the reimbursement of direct costs
associated with the rehabilitation of Runway
12R-30L (reconstruct 150 foot wide pavement
between Runway 12R Threshold and Taxiway
Sierra; repair cracks and replace select panels
between Taxiway Sierra and Runway 30L
Threshold); reconstruct intersection of
Runway 12R/30L and Runway 6/24 (Phase

2); and containing an emergency clause.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee

Ms. Krewson of the Committee on
Ways and Means submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
June 15, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 1
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance making appropriation for
payment of Interest, Expenses and Principal
of the City’s Bonded Indebtedness,
establishing City tax rates, and making
appropriation for current year expenses of
the City Government, Water Division, St.
Louis Airport Commission, Affordable
Housing Trust Fund, Health Care Trust Fund,
Use Tax Excess Trust Fund, Building
Demolition Fund, Assessor, Victim’s Fund,
Communications Division, City Employee
Pension Trust Fund, Forest Park Fund, Child
Support Unit (Circuit Attorney’s Office),
Circuit Attorney Training and Collection Fee
Funds, Port Administration, Peace Officer
Training Fund, Capital Improvement Projects
Fund, Capital Improvements Sales Tax Trust
Fund, Metro Parks Sales Tax Fund,
Centralized Mailroom and Equipment Services
Fuel Internal Service Funds, Tourism Fund,
Lateral Sewer Fund, Public Safety Trust Fund,
Public Safety Sales Tax Trust Fund, Local
Parks Fund, Neighborhood Parks Fund, BJC/
City Trust Fund, Miscellaneous Special
Funds, Trustee Lease Fund, Riverfront
Gaming Fund, Various Grant Funds, Tax
Increment District Special Allocation Fund,
City Convention and Sports Facility Trust
Fund and Employee Benefits Fund
(Department of Personnel); for the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 2012 and ending June 30,
2013, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of Nine Hundred Sixty Six Million, Two
Hundred Sixty Five Thousand, Seven Hundred
Seventy Nine Dollars ($966,265,779) which
sum is hereby appropriated from Revenue and
Special Funds named for the purposes
hereinafter enumerated and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 94

An ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,

authorizing a supplemental appropriation;
amending Ordinance 68882, commonly
referred to as the City of St. Louis Annual
Operating Plan for Fiscal Year 2011 2012;
appropriating and setting apart projected
excess general fund revenues to address certain
expenditures in the General Fund for the
current fiscal year, in the amount of Three
Million, Five Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($3,550,000) as hereinafter detailed;
and containing an emergency clause.
Alderwoman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 9, 17, 19, 36, 48 and 49.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION

Mr. Schmid moved that Board Bill No.
11 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.

Mr. Schmid moved to introduce a Floor
Substitute for Board Bill No. 11.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Mr. Schmid moved that Board Bill No.
11(Floor Substitute) before the Board for
perfection, be perfected as reported out of
Committee with its recommendation “Do
Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 60 through 62 and No. 64 through 68 and
the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 60
Jessie Dorothy Griswold-Preston
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to note the untimely passing of
longtime St. Louis resident, Jessie Dorothy
Griswold-Preston; and
WHEREAS, Jessie Dorothy GriswoldPreston was born to the late Preston and
Annie Sue Griswold. Jessie’s siblings Clyde,
Everett, Allean, Robert, Hilda and Jefferson
preceded her in death; and
WHEREAS, she was educated in the St.
Louis Public School System. She attended
Dunbar Elementary School and graduated from
Vashon High School in 1943. She continued
her education and graduated from Tucker
Business College and St. Louis University
College; and
WHEREAS, at an early age, she
confessed a hope in Christ and was baptized
at Calvery Baptist Church. She married Louis
Wesley Preston and then joined St. John AME
Church. She served a term as the Lay
Organization President at St. John AME; and
WHEREAS, Jessie had many great
accomplishments. She retired from the US
Federal Government after 30 years of service
as an Inventory Managements Specialist. She
received many promotions and awards. She
also worked at the Carver House as a secretary.
She held positions as PTA president and
member for Clark School, Enright Middle
School and Soldan High School for several
terms. She was one of the original founders of
the scholarship committee of the 7th District
Public Affairs, with over 40 years of service;
and
WHEREAS, she had great love for
family and friends. She would always say,
“Love you more” to all. She was a
grandmother, mother, aunt, sister and friend
to many. She started the Hill-Smith Family
Reunion and celebrated the 40th Annual
Family Reunion in August 2011 with a cruise
to the Bahamas; and
WHEREAS, she leaves to cherish her
memories: four children, Rev. Zelldrick
Preston, LaDell Preston Sr., Claudette Temple
(Willie) and Annie Sue Preston; eight
grandchildren, LaDell Preston Jr., Megan
Temple, Jabril Temple, Danielle Temple,
Jessica Preston, Joshua Temple, Dedrick
Mullen and Christopher Peters; two sisters,

Helen Manuel and Geraldine Crumpton; two
sisters-in-law, Mary Preston and Gwen Curry
and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, other
relatives and friends.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause to
remember the many contributions of Jessie
Dorothy Griswold-Preston to the citizens of
the City of St. Louis and we join with her
many friends in expressing our sorrow at her
passing, and we further direct the Clerk of
this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a memorial copy for presentation
to the Preston family, at a time and place
deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward

Resolution No. 61

Chef Jeff Henderson
WHEREAS, Chef Jeff Henderson
overcame insurmountable obstacles as a
wayward and troubled youth , including
incarceration to become a source of major
pride and extraordinary inspiration to youth,
and others as a human potential strategist,
chef, author, speaker, TV personality, and

WHEREAS, Chef Jeff Henderson’s
legendary accomplishments and extraordinary
climb to the top of the cuisine world include
his becoming the first African American Chef
de Cuisine at Caesars Palace, and the first
African American Executive Chef at the Café
Bellagio Hotel, Las Vegas; and

WHEREAS, Chef Jeff Henderson’s has
committed his talent, heart, and creative soul
to change lives, motivate lives and transform
lives through the power of food; and is
dedicated to fully mentoring at risk youth
while creating opportunities for them through
the Chef Jeff Project, a reality TV show on
the Food Network, and the Chef Jeff
Foundation which will provide scholarships,
and programs which bring awareness to the
causes that will benefit troubled youth; and

WHEREAS, Chef Jeff Henderson
through his company The Henderson Group
continues to encourage youth with the Power
of Potential, and the use of his catering
company Posh Urban Cuisine, is an urban
economic initiative which serves the needs of
an urban people in job creation, and embodies
the historic spirit of “blooming where you are
planted” and “reach one, teach one”; and

WHEREAS, Chef Jeff Henderson is a
best-selling author whose 2007 New York
Times book “Cooked, From the Streets to the

Stove, From Cocaine to Foie Gras” will be
made into a movie, that seeks to empower
and inspire others by reminding that “no
matter who you are, or what your story is, it
is never too late to achieve the American
Dream”
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the many
accomplishments of Chef Jeff Henderson and
wish him continued success and direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 12th day of June, 2012 by:
HonorableAntonio D. FrenchAlderman 21st Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 62

Greater Mount Carmel
Missionary Baptist Church
Centennial Celebration
WHEREAS, we have been apprised the
Greater Mount Carmel Missionary Baptist
Church is celebrating its 100th year
anniversary on Sunday, June 10, 2012; and

WHEREAS, the Greater Mount Carmel
Baptist Church was organized in January
1912, under the leadership of The Reverend
C. Gosby; it was called the Olivette Baptist
Church and was located at 2920 Market Street.
After several name changes, the church moved
from its location to 3222 Laclede Avenue, and
then became known as Mount Carmel Baptist
Church; and

WHEREAS, on February 2, 1951, the
Rev. Earl E. Nance, Sr., an associate minister
of the Galilee Baptist Church and a public
school teacher, was called as Pastor. With a
congregation of 18 and a great deal of faith in
God, Reverend Nance accepted the great
challenge that he knew was before him; and
WHEREAS, the first thing Pastor Nance
did was let the people know that the run down
building was not a proper place of worship
God. He felt that the house of worship should
be just as nice, if not nicer, than any other
place that welcomed the public and the children
of God. Some told Reverend Nance that it
would impossible to build a new church at
this time, but Pastor Nance said that nothing
is impossible with faith and a lot of hard work.
So, undaunted, Reverend Nance became the
contractor and the members and friends of the
church became the laborers, painters, and
bricklayers. After a year and seven months,

the dedication services were held from Sunday,
October 26, 1952 to November 9, 1952. The
final dedication message was delivered by the
uncle of Pastor Nance, the Rev. John E. Nance,
then the pastor of the Washington Tabernacle
Baptist Church. It was during this service that
the name of the church was changed to Greater
Mount Carmel Baptist Church; and
WHEREAS, to make way for urban
redevelopment, the church was sold in 1956
for almost twice its original cost, and in less
than five years. One can see from this single
example, that they were blessed to have a
minister of Reverend Nance’s caliber to lead
them. He not only was a great pulpiter, but a
capable administrator as well; and
WHEREAS, for the next two years
church services were held in the Baptist
Educational Building at 1411 North Grand
Boulevard, while their edifice at 1617 North
Euclid was being erected. On the first Sunday
in January 1960, they marched into their
present church. The church’s seating capacity
was 750, and had a membership of 725
families. The church thanked God daily for
sending such a leader in Pastor Nance, Sr. Early
1994 Pastor Nance, Sr. announced that he
would no longer pastor the Great Mount
Carmel Baptist Church. He named his son,
Reverend Earl E. Nance, Jr. as his successor.
Reverend Earl E. Nance, Jr. was installed as
the Pastor of Greater Mount Carmel on
Sunday, April 24, 1994. Reverend Earl E.
Nance, Sr. served as Pastor Emeritus until his
death on April 4, 2000; and
WHEREAS, Greater Mount Carmel,
under the leadership of their current Pastor
Reverend Earl E. Nance, Jr. has undergone
major renovations. Today their edifice speaks
of royalty, the place of worship for children
of the King, with deep purple and white décor.
To the Greater Mount Carmel Church Family,
its value is priceless. They are still prayerful
that God will continue to give Reverend Nance,
Jr. his grace and wisdom to lead us to greater
spiritual heights.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to join Mt Carmel in celebrating
its 100 years of dedication and serving of the
community and its loyal and loving
membership to the City of St. Louis and pray
that God provides continued leadership who
will look back on this celebration of 2012 and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 8th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard

Resolution No. 64

Grace Hill Patch Project
WHEREAS, the Patch Neighborhood
Center is a community-based center that
enlists the involvement of residents to
improve neighborhood conditions. These
residents are the MORE Board, “Member
Organized Resource Exchange.” They are the
ones that make the decisions for all programs
located at the Patch Center, as well as how to
improve the community which they live. It
serves a neighborhood bounded by Holly
Hills, I-55, south city limits and the
Mississippi River; and

WHEREAS, the Patch Center originated
in 1962 with the support of the National Lead
Company of St. Louis, the Great Lakes Carbon
Corporation, the Ship Building and Federal
Barge, Inc., Eagle Equipment Company,
Sunline Company and the Banner Ironworks
Company. The George A. Cappa Foundation
and the Smith Foundation contributed funds.
Representatives from these industries are on
the Advisory Board to represent the neighbors
and the community in the Patch area. It was
said to be the only such center in the area
sponsored by industry; and

WHEREAS, Grace Hill Settlement
began supervising the Center’s operation in
February 1962. A building located at 329 East
Courtois Street was opened and a pre-school
program was started. At 229 East Marceau a
youth program, operated by George Krupp
was began, where they taught boxing to youths
14 years and older; and

WHEREAS, the Patch Thrift Shop was
started at the 501 East Marceau location to
assist with training neighbors to operate the
shop and make it self supporting; and

WHEREAS, in 1971 GED classes began
at the 329 East Courtois location. And In 1973
the Senior Program started at 7625 South
Broadway; and

WHEREAS, on May 11, 1977
Alderman Albert Villa and Edward Renshaw,
President, St. Louis Ship, participated in the
dedication of the new Patch Neighborhood
Center at 7915 Minnesota where it is
presently located. The building was extended
in 1981, 1984 and in 1997; and

WHEREAS, the Patch Center offers a
variety of social and supportive services
including ongoing training though the
Neighborhood College Courses, the COCARE (Care Options for Children at Risk
Everyday) program provides parent training

to improve child care and parent skills and
STAES, (System to Assure Elderly Services);
and
WHEREAS, the Food Pantry was
started in 1993 after the flood. Volunteers
received special training from Operation Food
Search on keeping the Food Pantry up to code.
In one year alone, they assisted 1,556 families
and 3,561 individuals with a variety of food
items; and
WHEREAS, the Grace Hill/Patch
Neighborhood Center has been an asset to the
Community, Neighbors they serve, Volunteers,
and has always followed the motto
“Neighbors Helping Neighbors.”
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor the Patch
Project and we further direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honorees at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable ThomasAlbert Villa,Alderman 11th Ward

Resolution No. 65

Xenia Naert
WHEREAS, Xenia Naert is celebrating
a very special birthday, June 23rd; and

WHEREAS, Xenia is a dedicated, hard
working staff member at Deaf Way Services
which is a division of Paraquad; and

WHEREAS, Xenia is the Operations
Manager, ensuring a smooth , cost effective,
efficient, daily operation of the organization;
and

WHEREAS, Xenia is the loving mother
to Ellen, Bradley, Aspen and Howard Naert;
and

WHEREAS, when not at work Xenia
likes to walk the dogs, jog, workout and keep
physically fit.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Xenia Naert for her
contributions to the St. Louis community,
especially those individuals who have physical
challenges, and wish her continued success in
her professional and personal endeavors and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a

commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President of the Board of
Aldermen

Resolution No. 66
Pastor Ronald M. Fraction, Sr.
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
Pastor Ronald M. Fraction, Sr. is the Pastor
of Mount Chapel Missionary Baptist Church
in the City of St. Louis and serves as Director
of Mt. Chapel Learning Center Daycare
alongside wife, Evie Fraction; and
WHEREAS, Pastor Fraction is a retired
police officer of with twenty years of service
with the Kinloch Police Department and four
years of service of service with the
Washington Park, Illinois Police Department;
and
WHEREAS, Pastor Fraction owned and
operated 4-R Security and Detective Agency
from 1980-1990. He served throughout the
country including Georgia, Mississippi, and
Texas; and
WHEREAS, he currently serves the St.
Louis City Police Department as Chaplin and
serves as a member and Chaplin of St. Louis
Retired Police Officers (SLRPO); and
WHEREAS, Pastor Fraction is serving
the homeless through food ministries with St.
Louis Food Search for 18 years. He picks up
and delivers food items from Schnucks
Grocery Stores (bread, fruits, vegetables,
cakes, pies, meats, and deli items) 4 days a
week. He focuses on serving the community
of 63115, but no one is turned away; and
WHEREAS, Pastor Fraction owns and
operates Strike Force Security Detective
Agency.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor Pastor
Ronald M. Fraction, Sr., and we thank him for
his outstanding service to our community and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Charles QuincyTroupe,Alderman 1stWard

Resolution No. 67

The 25th Anniversary of
Tower Grove Heights
WHEREAS, the Tower Grove Heights
Neighborhood Association was started 25
years ago because many of the people who
had recently discovered this area wondered
why anyone would want to move. They
wanted to be known, so they pushed to
establish a new neighborhood association.
Even though Grand Oak Hill was already in
existence, the boundaries encompassed a huge
diverse area. Their goal was to establish a
smaller and more manageable neighborhood
with great housing stock- fourteen square
blocks with the Grand South Grand business
district to the east, Tower Grove Park to the
north, Gustine to the west and Utah Place to
the south.; and

WHEREAS, Susie Gudermuth, Lenita
Moore, Nels Moss, Tricia Heliker, Jean and
Rich Iezzi were active volunteers for the first
‘meet and greet’ at the old VFW Hall at
Wyoming and Spring . The turnout exceeded
predictions. Residents volunteered to be block
captains, to help with a neighborhood
newspaper, to participate in clean-ups, to
attend city hearings and to become members;
and

WHEREAS, a lot of work was done
with realtors. Many realtors were afraid to
even come to the area and didn’t know how to
market the houses or the neighborhood. It
was up to the association to educate the
realtors. They created a marketing brochure
that was given to every neighborhood listing
agent and made residents were available to
talk to agents and prospective buyers.
Informal seminars in residents’ homes were
arranged for interested realtors. The newly
created welcome packet became a great tool
for realtors and new residents; and

WHEREAS, the Tower Grove South
Housing Corporation was formed to rid the
area of problem properties. Tower Grove
Heights’ residents could see results when the
housing board purchased and renovated many
of our worst buildings into beautiful historical
buildings. The property on Spring between
Hartford and Juniata, affectionately called the
Hartford Arms, is an excellent example of what
the housing corporation accomplished; and

WHEREAS, as the Tower Grove
Heights Neighborhood Association developed,
more residents became involved through
programs such as ‘Cookies for Cops’, the
Gazette, the tenant/buyer referral program,
Christmas parties and caroling, house tours,
the Art of City Living, National Night Out
and Autumn Fest.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the 25th
Anniversary of Tower Grove Heights and we
direct the Clerk of this Board to prepare a
commemorative copy of this Resolution to
the end that it may be presented to our
honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Jennifer Florida,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 68

Louis Wesley Preston
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to note the passing of St. Louis
resident, Louis Wesley Preston; and

WHEREAS, Louis Wesley Preston, the
son of the late Stephen & Cora Bertha Preston
was born June 15, 1923; and

WHEREAS, Louis’ siblings, Ruth, Cora,
Doris, Herbert, Stephen, Eugene and Leon all
preceded him in death; and

WHEREAS, he was educated in the St.
Louis Public Schools. He graduated from
Vashon High School in 1943. At an early age
he confessed hope in Christ and joined
Wayman Temple AME Church. He was in
the US Army from July 31, 1943 to February
28, 1946 (World War II Veteran). Louis
married Jessie Griswold, who he referred to
as his last heart beat and the love of his life;
and

WHEREAS, Louis had many great
accomplishments in life. He was hired as the
first African American United States Postal
Auto Body Repairman, retiring after 34 years
of service. He was also the president of the
US Postal Auto Body Mechanic Union in
1976-1986. He completed Washington
University School of Continuing Education
with a certificate of accomplishment for Small
Business Management. He was the proud
owner of Action Auto Repair business for over
60 years. He was a member of 9th & 10th
(Horse) Calvary association “The Buffalo
Soldiers”. He was a member of Prince Hall
Masons/Masonic Lodge (Square Deal Lodge
No. 159); and

WHEREAS, he joined St. John AME
Church and was a faithful member and usher
until his health failed one month ago. He also
was a great father, grandfather, uncle, brother,
and son to many people. He always expressed
great love for his family; and
WHEREAS, he leaves to cherish his
memories, his beloved wife, Jessie Dorothy;

four children, Rev. Zelldrick Preston, LaDell
Preston, Sr., Claudette Temple (Willie) and
Annie Sue Preston; eight grandchildren, LaDell
Preston, Jr., Megan Temple, Jabril Temple,
Danielle Temple, Jessica Preston, Joshua
Temple, Dedrick Mullen and Christopher
Peters; four sister-in-laws, Mary Preston,
Helen Manuel, Geraldine Crumpton and
Gwen Curry; and a host of nieces, nephews,
cousins, other relatives & friends.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause to
remember the many accomplishments and
contributions of Louis Wesley Preston to the
citizens of the City of St. Louis and we join
with his many friends in expressing our sorrow
at his passing, and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a memorial copy
for presentation to the Preston family, at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Frank Williamson,Alderman 26th Ward
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 60 through 62 and
No. 64 through 68 stood considered.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 60 through 62 and No. 64 through 68 be
adopted, at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Young introduced Resolution No.
63 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 63
TO APPROVE THE SOULARD SPECIAL
BUSINESS DISTRICT BUDGET
WHEREAS, Soulard Special Business
District established by Ordinance Number
63154, approved May 20, 1996 is required
under Section 7 thereof to file with the Board
of Aldermen its annual budget for the funds
collected by the Collector of Revenue; and
WHEREAS,
the
Board
of
Commissioners of said District has met to
consider the budgetary requirements of the
Special Business District; and
WHEREAS, said Board of
Commissioners hereby submits the following
budget for the year beginning January 1, 2011
and ending December 31, 2011 for
consideration and approval by this Honorable
Board of Aldermen:

SOULARD SPECIAL
BUSINESS DISTRICT
2012 BUDGET
2012-Budget
Carryover from Prior Year

$120,425

REVENUE
Property Tax
Interest - Money Market
Subtotal - Revenue
Subtotal - Revenue & Carryover

$265,000
$3000
$265,300
$385,725

EXPENSES
Accounting Fee
Administrative
Banking
Business Management
Charity and Goodwill
Computer and Software
Election
Insurance
Legal
Programs
Program - Clubs
Program-Education/Seminars
Program - Light Bulbs
Program - Rewards
Program - Other
Programs- Subtotal
Security Patrols
GPS
Patrols
Security patrols-Subtotal
Substation
Cleaning
Maintenance & Repair
Supplies
Subtotal- Substation
Telephone
Internet
Land
Wireless
Subtotal - Telephone
Vehicles and Maintenance
Subtotal - Expenses
NET (Revenue &
Carryover Less Expenses)

$0
$500
$0
$18,000
$1,000
$500
$0
$1,000
$1,500
$400
$2,000
$0
$2,000
$0
$4,400
$5,132
$320,000
$325,132
$2,080
$500
$2,500
$5,080
$750
$750
$1,150
$2,650
$0
$359,762
$25,963

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by this Honorable Board of
Alderman that the aforesaid submitted budget
is hereby approved.

Introduced on the 15th day of June, 2012 by:
Honorable Phyllis Young,Alderwoman 7th Ward

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolution No. 63 stood considered.

Ms. Young moved that Resolution No.
63 be adopted, at this meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.

Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Mr. Wessels moved to excuse the
following alderman due to his necessary
absence: Mr. Roddy.
Seconded by Mr. Carter.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Wessels moved to adjourn under
rules to return June 22, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Villa.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - June 19, 2012
Board met at 1:45 P.M.

Present: Directors Skouby, Siedhoff,
Rice-Walker, Roth and President Bradley.

Absent: Directors Waelterman and Bess
(excused).

Requests of the Directors of Streets and
Parks, Recreation and Forestry to be excused
from the Regular Meeting of June 12, 2012
was read and leaves of absence granted.

Minutes of the Regular Meeting of June
12, 2012 were unanimously approved.

Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT

Supplemental Agreement No. 5 to PSA
1059 - Design of Main Terminal Ticketing
Hall Mid-Level Architectural Renovations
approved and President authorized to execute
same.

Memorandum of Agreement for Sharing
Nextgen Airport Surface Detection, Model X

(ASDE-X)Surveillance Data approved and
President authorized to sign same.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS
3 Permits for AT and T Missouri ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions as
follows: 118435, starting from existing
manhole in northbound lanes of Union on west
side of 5259 Paulian and front of 1601 Union,
bore west to the right of way then south to
proposed equipment site which is in the right
of way etc. 118436, start from existing
handhole across from 5512 Riverview and
proceed west to alley between Harney and
Emma, placement will continue north in alley
way across Park Lane to rear of 6003 Emma
where VRAD will be placed etc. 118440, place
cable from manhole at intersection of So. Grand
and Gasconade at front of 4101 So Grand for
165' along Gasconade, then south for 60' along
alley to new AT and T easement at rear of
4101 So. Grand. Total right of way footage is
215'.
2 Permits for Charter Communications
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions as follows: 118442, starting at
intersection of Lucas and No. 13th St., install
conduit north on 13th St. approx. 500' to rear
northeast corner of 1300 Convention Plaza
and, 118458, starting at intersection of 8th St.
and O’Fallon is proposing to install conduit
east on O’Fallon approx. 500' to intersection
of 7th St. and O’Fallon St., install hand hole
style vault on northeast corner, etc.
4 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 118441, Access
Fiber Group Inc., repair one AT and T conduit
manhole on south side of Walnut, a 2' innerduct
will be placed along with fiber then place a 4"
conduit between two manholes on south east
corner of 4th and Walnut, then saw cut in
order to replace 4" conduit etc. 118444, Level
3 Communications, directional drilling and
trenching to place 2-2" HDPE ducts from rear
of 4300 Goodfellow approx. 100' across
Planned Industrial Dr., then north approx.
2000' to Stratford turn west to Riverview then
north for approx. 500' to MoDot right of way
and, 118459, BJC health Systems/
Telecommunications Facilities Corp (TFC),
install approx. 420' of 8-4" PVC conduit
encased in concrete beginning at existing
manhole in So. Taylor to new 4’x8’x6' manhole
north of the centerline of Scott. 118294, Union
Electric d/b/a AmerenUE, set and remove pole,
install transformers banked for wire service in
alley on north side of Chippewa at Childress
at 6459 Chippewa.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Agreement between Missouri Highway

and Transportation Commission and the City
of St. Louis for property located at 6125
Alabama approved and President authorized
to sign same.

Lease Agreement Second Amendment
between the City of St. Louis and ACL
Transportation Services LLC for an additional
1,000 linear feet of mooring privileges of
unimproved wharf beginning at center line of
Holly ordered approved.

2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 118490,
Caruso’s Deli d/b/a Caruso’s Deli, encroach
with sidewalk café at 1312 Washington (4
tables and 12 chairs) serving liquor and,
118518, Pride St. Louis Inc., declare area of
entire parade route - i.e. a block either side of
Grand from Gravois to Magnolia, Arsenal from
Grand to Tower Grove and Magnolia from
Grand to Tower Grove, South Grand/Business
District a festival zone June 23-24, 2012.

Application No. 118447, A-1 Wok,
encroach with bollards at 1825 Gravois (12
bollards) ordered filed, by reason of the fact
that bollards are being placed on private
property so a permit is not needed.

DIRECTORS OF
STREETS AND PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY

Application No. 118513, Neighborhood
Entertainment, hold event and firework
display June 30, 2012 in Sublette Park ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF
STREETS, PARKS, RECREATION
AND FORESTRY AND HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS

Application No. 118514, Veiled
Prophets Association, hold event July 4, 2012
at Aloe Plaza and Plazas from Tucker to 20th
between Market and Chestnut and declare area
between Market, Chestnut, 18th and
Broadway a festival zone ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY
AND HEALTH AND HOSPITALS

2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 118501,
Luluemon Athletica, hold event June 20, 2012
in Lafayette Park and, 118427, St. Louis Hills
Homeowners Association, hold event June 22,
2012 at Francis Park.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No. 117981, Napoleon
Retreat Bed and Breakfast, operate a bed and
breakfast (5 rooms) at 1815 Lafayette ordered
approved.

1 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,
per Board Order No. 766: 118276, 1815
Lafayette, bed and breakfast, guest house, 5
rooms.

Agenda Items for June 19, 2012 ordered
approved.

The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
June 26, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President

ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for DESIGN SERVICES FOR AIRFIELD
PROJECTS AT LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®. Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00 PM CT,
July 10, 2012 at Board of Public Service, 1200
Market, Room 301 City Hall, St. Louis, MO
63103. RFQ may be obtained from website
www.stl-bps.org, under Contracts & Bids,
Professional Services, or call Bette Behan at
314-589-6214. 26% DBE participation goal.

PUBLIC NOTICE
There will not be a public hearing held
by the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, July 4, 2012 in Room 208 City
Hall.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

There will be a public hearing held by
the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, July 11, 2012 in Room 208 City
Hall.

APPEAL #10015 – Appeal filed by
Planet Fitness, from the determination of the
Board of Public Service in the denial of a
request to amend previously issued
conditional use permit to allow the Appellant
to operate a fitness center at 6155 S. Grand
Blvd. (Amend) WARD 11 #AB497546-12
ZONE: “G” – Local Commercial & Office
District BPS#118475

APPEAL #10016 – Appeal filed by
Danielle Style Inc, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
install one non-illuminated wall sign, per plans,
at 2826 Sublette Ave. WARD 10 #AB49706012 ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #10017 – Appeal filed by
Wood Maples from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
construct a covered carport, per plans, at 6164
Crescent. WARD 24 #AB498489-12
ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #8753 – Appeal file by Sal’s
Auto Care, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the revocation of a
use variance and occupancy permit, with
conditions, authorizing the Appellant to
operate an auto service repair and body work
business at 4474-78 Chippewa. (Revocation
Hearing) WARD 14 #AO386545-06
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, July 5, 2012 on the following
conditional uses:
5037 Louisiana - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Casa Blanca Housekeeping Services
(Housekeeping/Office Use Only) “B”- Two
Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 25
10265 Lookaway Dr. - Home
Occupancy Waiver - Jerry Butler
Construction (Contracting Business/Office
Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 2
3931 Cleveland - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Wynne Photography (Weddings &
Portraits/Office Use Only) “B” Two Family
Dwelling District. Db Ward 8
4420 S. Spring Ave. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Kristen Prysmiki (Freelance Editorial
Services/Office Use Only) “A” Single Family
Dwelling District. Db Ward 25
6101 Delmar - #AO-496885-12-Gokul
Indian Restaurant (Sit down/Carryout

Restaurant/Full Drink Bar w/sidewalk seating)
“F”- Neighborhood Commercial District.
Te Ward 28

5280 Fyler - #AO-498287-12-St. Louis
Muttropolitan (Dog Daycare/Grooming/
Boarding) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 10

7529 Michigan - #AO-498750-12Schoemehl Southside Bar & Grill (Full Drink
Bar/Restaurant/Rear Patio) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 11

4903 Arlington - #AB-498194-12Prospect Hill Baptist Church (Construct
Parking Lot per plans for Church) “A” Single
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 27

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, July 12, 2012 on the following
conditional uses:

4711 Goodfellow - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Genesis in Home Care, LLC (Home
Health Care/Office Use Only) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward
22

3636 S. Jefferson - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Electropolis (Audio/Editor for
Broadcast/Office Use Only) “J” Industrial
District. Db Ward 20

1721 S. 7th - #AO-498804-12 - River
City Mixed Martial Arts (Mixed Martial Arts
Studio/Retail Sales) “G”- Local Commercial
and Office District. Te Ward 7

3655 Flad Ave. - #AB-498495-12 Hebner Excavating (Construct Garage Addition
per plans for Single Family) “B” Two Family
Dwelling District. Bl Ward 8

5910 Natural Br. - #AB-498441-12 Headquarters Fine Dining (Interior & Exterior
Alterations per plans for Bar/Restaurant) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Bl Ward
22

5952 Columbia - #AB-498504-12 Garland Asphalt Paving (Construct Parking
Lot per plans for parking lot) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward
24

1919 Hadley - #AB-498748-12 Klitzing Welsh Associates, Inc. (Construct
Building per plans for Men’s Facility/Zoning
Only) “D” Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Bl Ward 5

1315 Howard St. - #AB-498747-12 Klitzing Welsh Associates, Inc. (Construct

New Building per plans for Women’s Facility/
Zoning Only) “F” Neighborhood Commercial
District. Bl Ward 5

INVITATIONTO BID
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
160-001908 – White Bond Paper
640-001603 –
Chief Stingray Spot Welder

Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, July 6, 2012 when they
will be opened publicly and announced.
Official bid forms on which bids must be
submitted may be obtained from the Office of
the Director of Purchasing by prospective
bidders upon request in person or by
telephone during regular business hours.

Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover
any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration

with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
Also, if a vendor would like to receive a bid
please email a request to bnturner@slmpd.org.
Email must include vendor’s company
name, address, and description of bid.
Purchasing Division
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Board of Police Commissioners
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
BID # BENEFITS - EMPLOYEE
BENEFIT/INSURANCE CONSULTANT
Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Director of
Purchasing, 1200 Clark Avenue, Room 605,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, until 11:00 a.m.
local time, Friday, July 13, 2012, when they
will be opened publicly and announced.
Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of the Director of
Purchasing by prospective bidders upon
request in person or by telephone during
regular business hours.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the Board of Police
Commissioners of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Police Department shall be entitled to recover

any damages resulting from termination.

The Board of Police Commissioners
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Board also
reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Board will consider
the location of the business, minority interest
in the business, prior performance and the bid
submitted in relation to the needs of the St.
Louis Metropolitan Police Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Carol Shepard,
at 314-444-5608 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
CAROL SHEPARD
DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING
PHONE# 314-444-5608

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS
City of St. Louis
City Counselor’s Office

The City of St. Louis is seeking qualified
organizations to submit sealed proposals for
Legal Research Services for the City

Counselor’s Office.
The Request for Proposals (“RFP”) may
be obtained at the City Counselor’s Office,
Room 314 City Hall, 1200 Market Street, St.
Louis, MO 63103 commencing Wednesday,
June 6, 2012. The RFP is also available online
at: http://stlouis-mo.gov/government/
procurement.cfm. The phone number for the
City Counselor’s Office is (314) 622-3361.
Sealed proposals will be received until
4:30 P.M. on Friday, June 29, 2012, at the
City Counselor’s Office, Room 314, City Hall,
1200 Market Street, St. Louis, MO 63103.
The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Respondents
shall comply with the Mayor’s Executive
Order #28, as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses to this
RFP and/or to cancel this RFP in part or in its
entirety.

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
LAMBERT-ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
Solicitation For Bids (SFB) for
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL &
RECYCLING SERVICES
BIDS WANTED

Bidding documents may be obtained at
Lambert St. Louis International Airport® Airport Properties Division, Monday
through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8184. This SFB
may also be obtained by visiting our website
at www.flystl.com (Click on “Business”).
Robert Salarano
Airport Properties Division Manager
ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN
NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS
LIVING WAGE RATES
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2012

In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
(“Ordinance”) and the Regulations associated
therewith, the City Compliance Official for
the City of St. Louis has determined that the
following living wage rates are now in effect
for employees of covered contracts:
1)

Where health benefits as defined in

the Ordinance are provided to the
employee, the living wage rate is
$11.93 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three); and
2)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are not provided to
the employee, the living wage rate is
$15.52 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three, plus fringe benefit
rates as defined in the Ordinance).

3)

Wages required under Chapter 6.20
of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis: $3.59 per hour.

These rates are based upon federal poverty
level income guidelines as defined in the
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of
April 1, 2012. These rates will be further
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty
level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services or
pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis.
The Ordinance applies to employers who are
covered by the Ordinance as defined in the
Ordinance, where the contract or grant is
entered into or renewed after the effective date
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or
obtained from:
City Compliance Official
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Certification and Compliance Office
P.O. Box 10212
St. Louis, Mo 63145
C314) 426-8111
Dated: February 17, 2012

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS
The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is JUNE 29, 2012.

PRINTING AND DUPLICATING
GRAPHICS MANAGER
Prom. 1913
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY

EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$47,814 to $71,266 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is JULY 6, 2012.

AIRFIELD OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
Prom./O.C. 1915
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)

PARK SUPERVISOR II
Prom./O.C. 1914
$36,400 to $54,132 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for the
following examination is JULY 13, 2012.

PARK RANGER (ARMED)
Prom./O.C. 1916
$27,924 to $41,418 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
June 20, 2012

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are

being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
JUNE 26, 2012 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

WEDNSDAY, JULY 11, 2012
LEASE FOR COLOR COPIER
for DIRECTOR OF HEALTH per Req. #80.
(SC)

TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2012
BID PROPOSAL FOR ASPHALT
(HOT & COLD MIX)

for a period of FOUR (4) YEARS from
DECEMBER 1, 2012. (BF)

BID PROPOSAL FOR
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
for a period of FOUR (4) YEARS from
OCTOBER 5, 2012. (BF)

TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2012
BID PROPOSAL FOR STEEL
(STAINLESS, ALUMINUM, ETC.)
for a period of THREE (3) YEARS from
DATE OF AWARD. (BF)

Notice to All Suppliers
It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to:
http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm
then, search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.
Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

