The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2012-2013
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, October 26, 2012.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

City of St. Louis Board of Aldermen
Chambers October 26, 2012.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Troupe,
Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Triplett, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Arnowitz, Wessels,
Howard, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Schmid,
French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson and President
Reed. 24

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY

Alderman Vollmer of the Credentials
Committee submitted the following report
which was read to the President of the Board
of Aldermen and Alderwomen.

The Committee on Engrossment,
Resolution, Rules, and Credentials have met
and report that they have considered the
qualifications of the following individual and
find him to be qualified to hold the office of
Alderman: Chris Carter.

Mr. Vollmer moved to approve the
qualifications of Mr. Carter.
Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING

Mr. Wessels moved to approve the
minutes for October 12, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

I wish to report that on the 26th day of
October, 2012, I delivered to the Office of the
Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bills that were truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 162

An ordinance approving the Petition of
various owners of certain real property to
establish the Grand Center Area Community
Improvement District; establishing the Grand
Center Area Community Improvement
District; finding a public purpose for the
establishment of the Grand Center Area
Community Improvement District; and
containing a severability clause and an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 174

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to conditionally vacate above
surface, surface and sub-surface rights for
vehicle, equestrian and pedestrian travel in an
irregular portion of Olive Street adjacent to
City Blocks 1042-W and 1057 and adjacent
to 3411 Olive in the City of St. Louis,
Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 123

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor, on the behalf of the City of St.
Louis, to enter into agreements with Casa de
Salud for the Needs Assessment project
entitled Salud de Nuestra Población funded
by the Missouri Foundation for Health, and
authorizing the Mayor, upon approval of the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment, to
expend any funds received by said agreement
to fulfill the obligations of the agreement, and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 53
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance prohibiting the harassment
of pedestrians and bicyclists; containing
definitions; prohibited activities; and a penalty

clause.

Board Bill No. 138
An ordinance establishing stop site for
all northbound and southbound traffic
traveling on Texas Avenue at Crittenden Street
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 175
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate above surface,
surface and sub-surface rights for vehicle,
equestrian and pedestrian travel in the irregular
shaped excess portion of Seventh Street
beginning at Cerre Street in the City of St.
Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter described, in
accordance with Charter authority, and in
conformity with Section l4 of Article XXI of
the Charter and imposing certain conditions
on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 176
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Service to vacate above surface,
surface and sub-service rights for vehicle,
equestrian and pedestrian travel in 1) An
irregular portion of 14th Street beginning at
Lafayette Avenue and extending southwardly
432.36' ± 64.96' to a point; 2) Soulard Street
between 13th Street and 14th Street in the
City of St. Louis, Missouri, as hereinafter
described, in accordance with Charter
authority, and in conformity with Section l4
of Article XXI of the Charter and imposing
certain conditions on such vacation.

Board Bill No. 166
An Ordinance pertaining to a ninety-nine
(99) year lease with City of St. Louis (“City”)
and the Missouri Highways and
Transportation Commission (“MHTC”) and
pertaining to the simultaneous swap of certain
property on Shreve Avenue, which is currently
being used by the City Street Department
under a Board of Public Service Permit, owned
by the MHTC.

Board Bill No. 86
(Committee Substitute)
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
The City of St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”)
to enter into and execute on behalf of the City
a Professional Service Agreement for Fleet
Vehicles & Special Equipment Maintenance/
Repair Services at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (the “Airport”) with
a five (5) year term ending August 31, 2017
(the “Agreement”), between the City and
Complete Auto Body & Repair, Inc. (the
“Consultant”), a State of Missouri
corporation, providing for the provision of

fleet vehicle & special equipment maintenance
and repair services to Airport vehicles and
equipment, subject to and in accordance with
provisions of the Agreement, which was
awarded to the Consultant and approved by a
City selection committee in accordance with
Ordinance 64102 approved July 16, 1997 and
was recommended and approved by the City’s
Airport Commission, and which is attached
hereto as ATTACHMENT “1” and made a
part hereof; containing a severability clause;
and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 156

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing a First Supplemental
Appropriation in the total amount of Four
Million Dollars ($4,000,000) from the Airport
Development Fund established under
authority of Ordinance 59286, Section 13,
approved October 26, 1984, into the Airfield,
Building and Environs Projects Ordinance
69091, approved February 13, 2012, for
payment of costs authorized therein; and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 157

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment,
authorizing the Mayor and the Comptroller
of The City of St. Louis (the “City”), with
the recommendation of the Director of
Airports, to accept, enter into, and execute on
behalf of the City, the owner and operator of
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), grant agreements offered by the
United States of America (the “Grant
Agreements”), acting through the Federal
Aviation Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation, the Grant
Agreements to provide for the reimbursement
or payment to the City for the United States
of America’s share of eligible costs incurred at
the Airport for City approved public works
and improvement programs and other City
approved Airport programs or projects;
authorizing the Director of Airports to make
such applications, to provide such data, and
to take whatever action necessary to seek
federal funds under the Airport Improvement
Program, the Passenger Facility Charge
Program, or other federal programs on behalf
of the Airport; containing a severability clause
and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 180

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
The City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter

into and execute, on behalf of the City, the
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
(“Airport”) News/Gift & Specialty Retail
Concession Agreement AL-212 (the
“Agreement”), between the City and HG-St.
Louis JV, a joint venture organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Missouri (the
“Concessionaire”), granting to the
Concessionaire the non-exclusive right, license,
and privilege to design, construct, operate,
manage, and maintain a News/Gift & Specialty
Retail Concession at the Airport within the
premises as described in the Agreement,
subject to and in accordance with the terms,
covenants, warranties, and conditions of the
Agreement, which was awarded and approved
by the Airport Commission and is attached
hereto as ATTACHMENT “1” and made a
part hereof; and containing a severability
clause.

Board Bill No. 114

An ordinance recommended by the Port
Authority Commission of the City of St.
Louis authorizing and directing the Mayor and
the Comptroller of the City of St. Louis to
enter into a second amendment to lease
(hereinafter “Second Amendment to Lease”
and attached as Exhibit 1) by and between the
City of St. Louis, a Municipal Corporation of
the State of Missouri (hereinafter called
“Lessor”), through its Mayor and
Comptroller, and ACL Transportation
Services LLC, (hereinafter called “Lessee”).
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
October 19, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Board Members:
I have the honor to return to you
herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,
Board Bills No. 88 (Committee Substitute)
and 168.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
October 19, 2012

Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Board Members:
I have the honor to return to you
herewith, with my approval endorsed thereon,
Board Bills No. 124, 125, 126, 127, 130, 131
and 134.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
October 26, 2012
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Members of the Board:
I have the pleasure to submit the
following individuals for reappointment to the
Forest Park Advisory Board:
The reappointment of Ms. Ann
Liberman, as a non-voting member, who
resides at 9520 Clayton Road, 63124 and
whose term will expire on June 26th, 2016.
The reappointment of Ms. May Brown
Reay, as a non-voting member, who resides at
1116 Warson Woods Drive, 63124 and whose
term will expire on June 26th, 2016.
The reappointment of Mr. Gary Krosch,
as a non-voting member, who resides at 15
Southmoor Drive, 63105 and whose term will
expire on June 26th, 2016.
The reappointment of Mr. Charles
Anthony Arington, who resides at 4940
Eichelberger Street, 63109 and whose term
will expire on June 26th, 2016.
The reappointment of Ms. Emily
Andrews, who resides at 3634 Bellerive Blvd.,
63116 and whose term will expire on June
26th, 2016.
The reappointment of Ms. Dennice
Kowelman, who resides at 710 N. Second
Street, 63102 and whose term will expire on
June 26th, 2016.
I respectfully request your approval of these
appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
Mr. Roddy moved to approve the
following individuals for reappointment to the

Forest Park Advisory Board: Ann Liberman,
May Brown Reay, Gary Krosch, Charles
Anthony Arington, Emily Andrews and
Dennice Kowelman.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS

Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 202

An ordinance establishing a stop site for
all eastbound and westbound traffic traveling
on McMillan Avenue at Marcus Avenue and
containing an emergency clause.

Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 203

An Ordinance directing the Director of
Streets to temporarily close, barricade, or
otherwise impede the flow of traffic on
College Avenue at the west curb line of Carter
Avenue and containing an emergency clause.

Board Members Krewson and Ogilvie
introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 204

An Ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis
(the “Board of Public Service”), establishing a
public works and improvement project for
the design and construction of various roadway
infrastructure improvements on Skinker
Boulevard between Clayton Road and Clayton
Avenue, and Oakland Avenue between Skinker
Boulevard and Hampton Avenue (the
“Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway
Improvement Project”); and authorizing and
directing the City of St. Louis (the “City”),
by and through its Board of Public Service, to
let contracts and provide for the design,
construction, materials, and equipment for the
Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway
Improvement Project, authorizing the Board

of Public Service to employ labor and
consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,
acquire any and all said real and personal
property rights and interests, in whole or in
part, including easements (by lease, purchase,
eminent domain, condemnation, or otherwise),
as necessary for completion of the Skinker,
Clayton, and Oakland Roadway Improvement
Project, and to enter into supplemental
agreements with the Missouri Highway and
Transportation Commission, Federal
Highway Administration, utilities, railroads,
and other governmental agencies for the
Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway
Improvement Project all in accordance with
the federal Transportation Equity Act for the
21st Century (23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.), with
any contract containing sections for:
description of the work, material guarantees,
estimated expenditure allocations, fund
reversion authorization, applicable federal and
state wage rate requirements, equal
opportunity provisions, the Mayor ’s
Executive Orders, and contract advertising
statutes; requiring that all work provided for
herein shall be carried out in accordance with
detailed plans and specifications adopted and
approved by the Board of Public Service before
bids are advertised therefor; directing that all
construction contracts let by authority of this
Ordinance provide for federal and state
prevailing wage requirements including
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and
compliance with all applicable statutes of the
State of Missouri (Sections 290.210 through
290.340 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri
2000, as amended), the City Charter and the
Revised Code of the City, as amended;
requiring all specifications approved by the
Board of Public Service and contracts let by
authority of this Ordinance provide for:
compliance with the Mayor’s Executive Orders
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when
superseded or prohibited by federal or state
law or regulation; contractor’s compliance
with the provisions of Sections 285.525
through 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri 2000, as amended, by requiring
enrollment and participation in a federal work
authorization program and no knowing
employment of unauthorized aliens;
contractor’s compliance with the provisions
of Section 292.675 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri 2000, as amended, by providing a
ten-hour Occupational Safety and Health
Administration construction safety program
for their on-site employees; contractor’s
compliance with the provisions of Section
34.057 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri
2000, as amended, (Prompt Payment/
Retainage), as applicable; requiring the
furnishing of a bond by every contractor on

this public works project pursuant to the
provisions of Section 107.170 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended;
compliance with Section 34.353 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended
(Domestic Product Procurement Act - Buy
American); requiring all advertisements for
bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject to
the provisions of Section 8.250 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended; and
appropriating the total estimated cost of the
Skinker, Clayton, and Oakland Roadway
Improvement Project of One Million, Nine
Hundred Ninety Thousand Dollars
($1,990,000.00) from various sources
including the Federal Highway Administration
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
Users (SAFETEA-LU), One-Half Cent Ward
Capital Improvement Fund, and Forest Park
Bonds; authorizing and directing the
Comptroller of the City to draw warrants from
time to time and disburse funds appropriated
by this ordinance and to receive and disburse
grant funds in accordance with the
Transportation Equity Act of the 21st Century
(23 U.S.C. 110, et seq.) upon the signature
and certification of vouchers by the President
of the Board of Public Service; and containing
a public work emergency clause.
Board Members Williamson, Boyd and
Troupe introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 205
An Ordinance, recommended by the
Board of Public Service of the City of St. Louis
(the “Board of Public Service”), establishing a
public works and improvement project for
the design and construction of the second
phase of the Dr. Martin Luther King
Pedestrian Lighting Project involving
infrastructure improvements on Dr. Martin
Luther King Drive from Arlington Avenue to
Kingshighway Boulevard (the “Dr. Martin
Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project”); and
authorizing and directing the City of St. Louis
(the “City”), by and through its Board of
Public Service, to let contracts and provide
for the design, construction, materials, and
equipment for the Dr. Martin Luther King
Pedestrian Lighting Project, authorizing the
Board of Public Service to employ labor and
consultants, pay salaries, fees and wages,
acquire any and all said real and personal
property rights and interests, in whole or in
part, including easements (by lease, purchase,
eminent domain, condemnation, or otherwise),
as necessary for completion of the Dr. Martin
Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project, and
to enter into supplemental agreements with
the Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission,
Federal
Highway
Administration, utilities, railroads, and other

governmental agencies for the Dr. Martin
Luther King Pedestrian Lighting Project all in
accordance with the federal Transportation
Equity Act for the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.
110, et seq.), with any contract containing
sections for: description of the work, material
guarantees, estimated expenditure allocations,
fund reversion authorization, applicable
federal and state wage rate requirements, equal
opportunity provisions, the Mayor ’s
Executive Orders, and contract advertising
statutes; requiring that all work provided for
herein shall be carried out in accordance with
detailed plans and specifications adopted and
approved by the Board of Public Service before
bids are advertised therefor; directing that all
construction contracts let by authority of this
Ordinance provide for federal and state
prevailing wage requirements including
prevailing wage holiday and overtime pay and
compliance with all applicable statutes of the
State of Missouri (Sections 290.210 through
290.340 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri
2000, as amended), the City Charter and the
Revised Code of the City, as amended;
requiring all specifications approved by the
Board of Public Service and contracts let by
authority of this Ordinance provide for:
compliance with the Mayor’s Executive Orders
on Equal Opportunity and maximum MBE/
WBE/DBE utilization goals, except when
superseded or prohibited by federal or state
law or regulation; contractor’s compliance
with the provisions of Sections 285.525
through 285.555 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri 2000, as amended, by requiring
enrollment and participation in a federal work
authorization program and no knowing
employment of unauthorized aliens;
contractor’s compliance with the provisions
of Section 292.675 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri 2000, as amended, by providing a
ten-hour Occupational Safety and Health
Administration construction safety program
for their on-site employees; contractor’s
compliance with the provisions of Section
34.057 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri
2000, as amended, (Prompt Payment/
Retainage), as applicable; requiring the
furnishing of a bond by every contractor on
this public works project pursuant to the
provisions of Section 107.170 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended;
compliance with Section 34.353 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended
(Domestic Product Procurement Act - Buy
American); requiring all advertisements for
bids pursuant to this Ordinance be subject to
the provisions of Section 8.250 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri 2000, as amended; and
appropriating the total estimated cost of the
Dr. Martin Luther King Pedestrian Lighting
Project of Nine Hundred Twenty Thousand

Dollars ($920,000.00) from various sources
including the Federal Highway Administration
Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient
Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for
Users (SAFETEA-LU), and the One-Half
Cent Ward Capital Improvement Fund;
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of
the City to draw warrants from time to time
and disburse funds appropriated by this
ordinance and to receive and disburse grant
funds in accordance with the Transportation
Equity Act of the 21st Century (23 U.S.C.
110, et seq.) upon the signature and
certification of vouchers by the President of
the Board of Public Service; and containing a
public work emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bill No. 199.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bills No. 202, 203, 204 and 205.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Wessels of the Committee on
Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
submitted the following report which was
read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
October 26, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Housing, Urban
Development and Zoning to whom was
referred the following Board Bill, report that
they have considered the same and recommend
adoption.

Board Bill No. 190
An ordinance approving a blighting study
and redevelopment plan dated September 25,
2012 for the 2710-16 Lafayette Ave.
Redevelopment Area (as further defined herein,
the “Plan”) after finding that said
Redevelopment Area (“Area”) is blighted as
defined in Section 99.320 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri, as amended (the
“Statute” being Sections 99.300 to 99.715
RSMo inclusive, as amended); containing a
description of the boundaries of the Area in
the City of St. Louis (“City”), attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Attachment “A”,
finding that redevelopment and rehabilitation
of the Area is in the interest of the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the people of the City; approving the Plan
attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Attachment “B”, pursuant to Section 99.430
RSMo, as amended; finding that there is a
feasible financial plan for the redevelopment
of the Area which affords maximum
opportunity for redevelopment of the Area
by private enterprise; finding that no property
in the Area may be acquired by the Land
Clearance for Redevelopment Authority of the
City of St. Louis (“LCRA”), a public body
corporate and politic created under Missouri
law, through the exercise of eminent domain;
finding that some of the property within the
Area is occupied, and the Redeveloper(s) (as
defined herein) shall be responsible for
providing relocation assistance pursuant to
the Plan to any eligible occupants displaced
as a result of implementation of the Plan;
finding that financial aid may be necessary to
enable the Area to be redeveloped in
accordance with the Plan; finding that there
shall be available up to a ten (10) year real
estate tax abatement; and pledging cooperation
of this St. Louis Board of Aldermen (“Board”)
and requesting various officials, departments,
boards and agencies of the City to cooperate
and to exercise their respective powers in a
manner consistent with the Plan; and
containing a severability clause.
Alderman Wessels
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Schmid of the Committee on Public
Safety submitted the following report which
was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,

October 26, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Public Safety to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 109
(Committee Substitute)

An Ordinance amending the Firefighters’
Retirement Plan of the City of St. Louis;
providing additional cost of living increases
for firefighters disabled because of an injury
incurred while fighting a fire.

Board Bill No. 153
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance pertaining to prostitution
loitering; repealing Ordinance 57831, Section
827.280, codified as Section 17.16.270 of the
Revised Code of the City of St. Louis
pertaining to demonstration on or near street;
and enacting in lieu thereof a new ordinance
pertaining to prostitution loitering and
containing a penalty, severability and
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 171

An Ordinance pertaining to secondhand
dealers; amending Section Two, Ordinance
63478, codified as Chapter 8.82.010 of the
Revised Code of the City of St. Louis
pertaining to the definition of secondhand
dealer; amending Section One of Ordinance
69096, codified as Section 8.82.040 of the
Revised Code of the City of St. Louis and
pertaining to the requirements of license
applications; amending Section Two of
Ordinance 68812 and Section Two of
Ordinance 69096, codified as 8.82.050 of the
Revised Code of the City of St. Louis, and
pertaining to photographs, transaction forms
and holding period; amending Section Two of
Ordinance 63478, codified as 8.82.060,
pertaining to the purchase of certain articles;
adding a new section pertaining to the business
licensing and purchasing requirements of
secondhand cellular phones and other
electronic communication devices and a new
section on cooperating with law enforcement
authorities; containing a penalty clause,
severability clause and an effective date clause.
Alderman Schmid
Chairman of the Committee

Ms. Krewson of the Committee on
Ways and Means submitted the following
report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
October 26, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bill,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 135

An ordinance approving the Petition of
owners of real property seeking the creation,
extension, renewal and establishment of the
Flora Place Community Improvement
District; finding a public purpose for the
creation, extension, renewal and establishment
of Flora Place Community Improvement
District; and containing a severability clause
and an emergency clause.
Alderwoman Krewson
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 132 (Committee Substitute), 187,
136, 137, 163, 170, 164, 165, 91, 105, 194, 34
(Committee Substitute/As Amended), 121,
119 (Committee Substitute), 169 (Committee
Substitute), 177 and 188.
Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION

Mr. Schmid moved that Board Bill No.
169 (Committee Substitute) before the Board
for perfection, be perfected as reported out of
Committee with its recommendation “Do
Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

Ms. Hubbard moved that Board Bill No.
167 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Mr. Bosley move to table Board Bill No.

167.
Seconded by Mr. Ogilvie.
Failed by the following vote:

Ayes: Bosley, Triplett, French, Ogilvie
and Carter. 5

Noes: Troupe, Moore, Hubbard,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Arnowitz, Wessels,
Howard, Baringer, Kennedy, Schmid, Boyd,
Vaccaro, Cohn, Williamson and Krewson. 16
Present: 0
Ms. Hubbard renewed her motion that
Board Bill No. 167 before the Board for
perfection be perfected as reported out of
Committee with its recommendation “Do
Pass”.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Failed by the following vote.
Ayes: Hubbard, Ortmann, Arnowitz,
Wessels, Howard and Baringer. 6
Noes: Bosley, Moore, Triplett, French,
Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie and Krewson. 8
Present: Troupe, Vollmer, Kennedy,
Schmid, Cohn, Williamson and Carter. 7

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Kennedy moved for third reading
and final passage of Board Bills No. 92
(Committee Substitute) and 161 (Committee
Substitute)
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Troupe, Moore, Hubbard,
Triplett, Ortmann, Vollmer, Arnowitz,
Wessels, Howard, Baringer, Kennedy, Schmid,
French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn,
Williamson, Carter and Krewson. 20
Noes: 0
Present: 0

Board Bill No. 92
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance pertaining to pedestrian
access to buildings; establishing regulations
for pedestrian access that primarily serves
users of the subject property and for which
dedication of public access rights is not
required.

Board Bill No. 161
(Committee Substitute)
An Ordinance pertaining to solicitation
on highway entrance and exit ramps within
the City of St. Louis; amending Section One,
Part 829.060 (e) of Ordinance 57831,
approved April 19, 1979 codified in Section
17.20.070 (E) of the Revised Code of the City
of St. Louis, adding new sections pertaining
to the same subject matter and containing a
severability and emergency clause.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE

Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, October 26, 2012.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
enrolled.

Board Bill No. 92
(Committee Substitute)

An ordinance pertaining to pedestrian
access to buildings; establishing regulations
for pedestrian access that primarily serves
users of the subject property and for which
dedication of public access rights is not
required.

Board Bill No. 161
(Committee Substitute)

An Ordinance pertaining to solicitation
on highway entrance and exit ramps within
the City of St. Louis; amending Section One,
Part 829.060 (e) of Ordinance 57831,
approved April 19, 1979 codified in Section
17.20.070 (E) of the Revised Code of the City
of St. Louis, adding new sections pertaining
to the same subject matter and containing a
severability and emergency clause.
Alderman Vollmer
Chairman of the Committee

Board Bills Numbered 92 (Committee
Substitute) and 161 (Committee Substitute)
were read and all other business being
suspended, Mr. Wessels, in the presence of
the Board and in open session, affixed his
signature in accordance with the provisions
of the Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Wessels introduced Resolutions No.
156 through 161 and the Clerk was instructed
to read same.

Resolution No. 156

Dr. James M. Whittico, Jr.
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
Central Baptist Church on November 18, 2012
will be hosting a celebration in honor of Dr.
James M. Whittico. The celebration will be
held on Dr. Whittico’s 96th birthday, Sunday,

November 18, 2012 during their 11:00 am
Worship Service; and
WHEREAS, James Malachi Whittico Jr.
was on born November 18, 1916 in
Williamson, West Virginia. His father, James
Sr. practiced medicine and his mother Nannie
was an educator. Young Whittico graduated
from Liberty High Scholl in 1932; received
his A.B. with honors from Lincoln University,
(Pennsylvania) with honors in 1936 and
received his M.D. degree from Meharry
Medical College in 1940. He did his internship
and senior internship at Homer G. Phillips
Hospital (St. Louis) before volunteering for
the U.S. Army in 1942; and
WHEREAS, he was the first Black
doctor from Missouri to become a military
hospital chief surgeon in active combat. He
served as Commanding Officer and Chief
Surgeon for the hospital of the 93rd Infantry
Division and rose to the rank of Lt .Colonel,
receiving several military awards that included
the Bronze Star Medal for combat service in
the Southwest Pacific Theater; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Whittico has received
numerous gubernatorial and presidential
appointments. In 1968 Dr. Whittico served
as president of the National Medical
Association. President Lyndon B. Johnson
accepted Dr. Whittico’s invitation to address
the NMA. This was the first time in history
that a sitting president of the United States
had visited and addressed the convention at
one of its sessions. While president, the NMA
was awarded a multi-million dollar grant from
the National Institute of Health to recruit
African Americans to medical schools; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Whittico has been a
devoted disciple and servant leader of Central
since joining in 1948. His numerous civic and
community involvement never hampered him
serving God and Central. He served as church
physician in the basement of the old historic
church before that fateful fire. Dr. Whittico
has served Central in numerous capacities since
1948. His latest published work is the
Historical Forward to Central’s 2011 Church
Directory. In 2010 he was elevated to chairman
Emeritus of Central’s Health Ministry; and
WHEREAS, he and his wife Gloria
(Thompson) are the proud parents of Jarrhet
M. Whittico and Joi Whittico-Kalkbrenner
(Jim) and have grandchildren, John and Julia
Kalkbrenner.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize James Malachi
Whittico Jr. and we wish him continued
success, achievement and accomplishment and

we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 26th day of October, 2012
by:
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderman 19th Ward

Resolution No. 157
Bernice Jones
WHEREAS, we have been apprised
that on Thursday, October 25, 2012, Bernice
Jones will be recognized by the residents of
the Twenty-Second Ward with the
presentation of the Good Neighbor Award;
and
WHEREAS, Ms. Jones has resided in
this neighborhood at 5956 Romaine Pl. for
more than 54 years and she is recognized and
respected for her dedication to the
preservation and stabilization of her
neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, Dairy Queen was
demolished in 1964 at the location of 1374
Hodiamont Ave leaving the lot as an eyesore
due to litter. After realizing that the lot would
be neglected and nothing built on the site for
years, Ms. Jones and her neighbors began to
maintain it. She wanted a neighborhood garden
and finally it was officially started in 1985
with the permission of the Land Reutilization
Authority; and
WHEREAS, she has had to use her own
personal money to help finance the project
because of inability to get other financial
assistance; and
WHEREAS, Bernice Jones has a great
spirit of community service by being present
and always willing to help her neighbors and
the City of St. Louis is a model for the
citizenry we need to rebuild a better St. Louis;
and
WHEREAS, Ms. Jones is an exceptional
member of this community and we greatly
appreciate her commitment to her
neighborhood and to the entire City of St.
Louis.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis, that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and congratulate
Bernice Jones and we thank her for her
continuing efforts to improve the quality of
life for the residents of this City and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative

copy for presentation to our honoree at a time
and place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 25th day of October, 2012
by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward

Resolution No. 158

Michael Latchinson
WHEREAS, in July 1985 through divine
inspiration of the Holy Spirit, God charged
Brother Michael Latchison, “to lift up a
standard for the people in love” through his
gift of minstrel. His bold acceptance coupled
with his strong- will determination to press
towards the mark manifested the: The Michael
Latchison Singing Ministry; and

WHEREAS, we salute Brother Michael
Latchison for his established 26 years of
faithfulness to his charge maintained by Love;
and

WHEREAS, we commend the Michael
Latchison Singing Ministry family for their
impact within the City of Saint Louis. We
recognize their expansion from a traditional
faith based approach into a community
outreach approach, including; missions
specific for those who are confined in nursing
homes; their success to uplift children’s self
esteem through “back- pack” to school drives;
and

WHEREAS, we believe that the
Michael Latchison Singing Ministry motto:
“A Family Bonded Together By Love” can be
authenticated by Brother Michael Latchison’s
26 years of commitment and accomplishments
beginning with his organization of the “The
Love Center Choir”, as a student at Irving
Elementary Public School; organizing “The
Beaumont High School Gospel Choir” during
his tenure as a St. Louis Public School District
employee; the formalizing of “”The Michael
Latchison Singing Ensemble” created for the
graduates seeking to maintain a positive social
environment; and the birth of The Michael
Latchison Singing Ministry, organized to
include “whosoever will let them come”; and

WHEREAS, we commend the Michael
Latchison Singing Ministry for their
performance; to the servicemen of Scott Air
Force Base; advancement as a McDonald
Gospel Fest semi- finalist; the Live Recording
CD, Project:” The Michael Latchison Singers,
Jesus I’ll Never Forget” and the note worthy
collaborations with renown recording artists
such as, Tremaine Graham, Malcolm Williams
& the Great Voice, Saint Louis’ own, Evangelist
Garnell Hubbard-Spearman and the Late James
Cleveland; and
NOW

THEREFORE

BE

IT

RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize opera Michael
Latchison and we wish him continued success,
achievement and accomplishment and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 26th day of October, 2012
by:
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4th Ward

Resolution No. 159

Belt Loop Confectionary and
Package Liquor
WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
on Thursday, October 25, 2012, Belt Loop
Confectionary and Package Liquor will be
recognized by the residents of the TwentySecond Ward with the presentation of the
Good Neighbor Award for a Business; and

WHEREAS, Belt Loop opened in
September of 1991, by Norma J. Walker. On
the way home from work Ms. Walker passed
an empty store front (5501 St. Louis Avenue)
located around the corner from her residence
(5740 Roosevelt). With only $250.00 she
negotiated terms with the owner, researched
and did the leg work necessary to secure a
business license; and

WHEREAS, every dime that wasn’t
used for bills was recycled over and over into
more stock. She went to the wholesale house
daily. About a year later, Ms. Walker did the
foot work to obtain the neighborhood’s
consent to receive a liquor license. Ms.
Walker ’s temporary job turned into a
permanent job offer, which she turned down
to work full time developing her own business;
and
WHEREAS, Belt Loop will always have
an obligation to its youngest customers
because that’s who supported them at the
start. Every Halloween, Easter and Christmas,
Belt Loop gives candy bags free to the children
in their neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, for fifteen years they put
on a customer appreciation day that is always
an outstanding event. They provide free BBQ,
beverages, limo rides, pony rides, goats, sheep,
clowns, outdoor amusement equipment, tee
shirts, jackets, etc. to all our neighbors for a
day of fun once a year. Unfortunately,
economics changed, as well as, their customer
base, therefore, they had to change their
strategy. They continue to provide their
customers with yearly calendars and small

tokens throughout the year to show their
appreciation for their patronage; and
WHEREAS, Belt Loop believes in being
a good citizen. They watch out for their
neighbors, residents and businesses by
reporting suspicious behavior. They have
acted as a safe haven for neighborhood children
that might be in distressful situation. Belt
Loop provides a safe place for all to shop by
having a no tolerance policy in regards to
loitering around their business; and
WHEREAS, Belt Loop has assisted
many families in the neighborhood with
financial support, i.e. school supplies, school
clothing, funeral cost, headstones, fire victims
and Christmas toys. They look out for our
seniors that might need something, but can’t
make it to the store by making delivery runs
when necessary; and
WHEREAS, they have worked with the
City of St. Louis to put on a job fair in the
Wells-Goodfellow neighborhood. They have
sponsored and donated to many National
Night Outs; and
WHEREAS, Belt Loop believes in
making their community look attractive. They
take responsibility for cleaning the vacant lot
across from the business. They don’t believe
in defacing the outside of their building with
advertising and work to keep their property
neat, attractive and well lit.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the contributions
of Belt Loop Confectionary and Package
Liquor and we further direct the Clerk of this
Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 25th day of October, 2012
by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22nd Ward

Resolution No. 160
Ms. Jacqueline Hutchinson
WHEREAS, WHEREAS, we pause to
honor Jacqueline (Jackie) Hutchinson for her
over 30 years working in field community
action, specifically with Community Action
Agency of St. Louis County-City Services
(CAASTL-City Services) and HDC; and
WHEREAS, during her long career she
met the national standards for community
action leadership by achieving Certified
Community Action Professional (CCAP)

certification; and

WHEREAS, Jackie provided much
needed leadership in forming the Community
Access Pilot, which lead to the St. Louis
Regional Unbanked Task Force and on a
national level lead to participation in banking
and financial literacy policy; and

WHEREAS, she also has extensive
experience in implementing consumer energy
programs and working with diverse boards of
energy, banking, technological focused
organizations; and

WHEREAS, over the years she has
received many awards, including the Sister Pat
Kelley Award-National Fuel Funds Network
in 2009, Community Services Award-Top
Ladies of Distinction in 2005, Meritorious
Community Services Award-Legal Aid of
Eastern Missouri in 1985 and many more;
and

WHEREAS, not resting on her laurels,
Jackie has embraced a new endeavor having
recently been appointed as Vice President of
Operations for “Peoples Community Action
Corporation”, the new non-profit created by
People’s Health Centers.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and praise the
tremendous contributions Jacqueline (Jackie)
Hutchinson has made to our city, our
community, and the entire region. We further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 26th day of October, 2012
by:

Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Resolution No. 161

Walgreens Expressions Challenge
WHEREAS, our city and nation’s future
depends on the health and integrity of young
people across the region who will be our
leaders of tomorrow; and

WHEREAS, to promote healthy
responsible decisions by our youth, the
Walgreens Company has established the
Walgreens Expressions Challenge; and

WHEREAS, the Walgreens Expressions
Challenge is a contest established for high
school teenagers, ages 14 to 18 to engage in
conversation about healthy choices for their
future through creative expression; and

WHEREAS, teens still face many
challenges when it comes to having open,
productive conversations about sexual health
with their parents, teachers and other adult
figures in their lives. Open and healthy
conversations are still very much needed for
teens for effective change; and
WHEREAS, the Expressions Challenge
motivates teens to voice their opinions on
topics including ‘self-esteem’, ‘teen
pregnancy’, ‘STD awareness and prevention’,
‘abstinence’ and “sexual responsibility”; and
WHEREAS, in the six years the
Walgreens Expressions Challenge has been
held in St. Louis and Chicago the ‘Challenge’
has reached more than 500,000 teens; and
WHEREAS, the “Challenge” has
awarded over $70,000 in cash and prizes to
winners, entrants, teachers, schools and
organizations.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and praise the teens
who participate in the Walgreens Expressions
Challenge. Also we recognize the important
contribution Walgreens and the Walgreens
Expressions Challenge continues to make in
the development of our youth. We further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 26th day of October, 2012
by:
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19th Ward
Honorable Lewis E. Reed, President, Board ofAldermen

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 156 through 161
stood considered.

Mr. Wessels moved that Resolutions No.
156 through 161 be adopted, at this meeting
of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Kennedy moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Flowers, Ms. Young, Mr. Villa,
Ms. Florida and Ms. Davis.
Seconded by Mr. Williamson
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Kennedy moved to adjourn under
rules to return November 2, 2012.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - October 30, 2012
Board met at 1:45 P.M.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Bess, Siedhoff, Roth and President Bradley.
Absent: Director Rice-Walker (excused)
In the absence of the Secretary, Board of
Public Service, Theresa Alvey was appointed
Secretary pro tem.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
October 23, 2012 were unanimously
approved.

LETTINGS
Two under Letting No. 8514 - Concrete
and Brick Removal/Replacement and
Complete Sidewalk Installation, SP-90 were
received, publicly opened, read and transferred
to the President.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT
Board Bill 197- A Multi-Year Public
Works and Improvements Program for
Building and Environs Projects at LambertSt. Louis International Airport, approved and
President authorized to execute the same.

Supplemental Agreement No. 5 to PSA
No. 1043 - Program Management Consultant
Services For The Airport Experience Program,
approved and President authorized to execute
the same.

DIRECTORS OF
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND STREETS

3 permits for Southwestern Bell d/b/a
AT and T Missouri ordered approved, subject
to certain conditions as follows: 118821, start
at side of 2601 So. 7th St. at an AT and T
manhole and bore and place 2' pipe with fiber
cable inside north under the sidewalk turn west
along Victor under sidewalk then turn into
school property, 118822, start at rear of 2035
Maury and bore and place one 2" pipe with
fiber cable inside along 3' off edge pavement
going northeast to Russell turning west under
sidewalk place a handhole in the grass then
turn north across Russell, 1904 So.
Vandeventer, 118849, bore and place one 2"
pipe with fiber cable inside beginning at an
AT and Tmanhole at intersection of the alley
north of Cass and 10th St. going east in alley
crossing No. 9th St. turning north onto
property at 1512 No. 9th St.

1 permit for AT and T ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions as follows:
118871, to bore a fiber buried cable starting
from an AT and T manhole in front of 6124
Berthold on the south side of Berthold going
west to Clayton turn down Clayton then bore
under Clayton from the south side to the north
side then bore to and ending at etc.

3 permits for Charter Communications
ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions as follows: 118820, to bore 1 1/2"
duct for coax drop wire starting at pole (11116)
5712 West Park on the south side of West
Park going north across 52' across West Park
to the west side of 5711 West Park and ending
by pole, 118851, to start at the west side of
319 No. 4th St. (in alley) bore a 2" duct with
24strand fiber cable inside south through the
alley to Olive then east on Olive to existing
manhole at 400 Olive total ROW footage is
495', 118852, start at the south side of 800
Washington bore a 2" duct with 24 strand fiber
cable inside west down St. Charles to 9th St.
then south on 9th St. then west down the
alley to an existing Charter cabinet north of
1919 Locust total ROW footage is 741'.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY

Application No.118750, Timothy
Bainter, subdivide land at 3230-34 Itaska in
C.B. 2762 ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

Application No.118902, Cupples 9
Subtenant LLC for boundary adjustment of

land in C.B. 427 surrounding Poplar, 9th St.,
Spruce and 10th St. ordered approved, subject
to certain conditions.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS

Application No.118812, Bellefontaine
Cemetery Association, to hang 16 banners on
North Broadway from South Calvary Drive
to the railroad overpass at what was formerly
Morin Avenue ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions.

Application No.118883, Park Station
Apartments to encroach with main sign located
in island in front of 5560 Pershing ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

Application No.118884, Executive
House Condominium, to install three bike
racks at 4466 West Pine ordered approved,
subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved as submitted by the Hearing Officer,
per Board Order No. 766: 118906, 5600
Natural Bridge, plumbing office with inside
storage for equipment and materials, 118907,
1324 Hampton, construct new building per
plans for Taco Bell restaurant, 118908, 8787
North Broadway, retail sales flea market with
ten inside and outside booths with new and
used appliances, 118909, 2016 Cherokee,
antique shop, 118910, 4318 Dewey, artisan
contracting business (office use only) home
occupancy waiver, 118911, 3736 West
Florissant, retail convenience store with cell
phones and cooking (no liquor), and 118912,
1601 South Jefferson, interior alterations (per
plans) for gym (zoning only).

Agenda Items for October 30, 2012
ordered approved.

The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
November 6, 2012.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President

ATTEST:
Theresa Alvey,
Secretary pro tem

PUBLIC NOTICE

A public hearing held by the Board of
Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on Wednesday,
November 14, 2012 in Room 208 City Hall
to consider the following:

APPEAL #10074 – Appeal filed by Rebel
Motors, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate
an auto repair, auto body work, and used cars
sales, parts & tire sales business with outside

storage of cars (no painting) at 730-34
Doddridge. WARD 2 #AO501734-12
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
APPEAL #10075 – Appeal filed by
Confluence Academy, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to erect one illuminated ground sign, per plans,
at 310 N 15th Street. WARD 5 #AB50081412 ZONE: “I” – Central Business District
APPEAL #10076 – Appeal filed by
Confluence Academy, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to erect one non-illuminated ground sign, per
plans, at 3112 Meramec Street. WARD 20
#AB500815-12 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District
APPEAL #10077 – Appeal filed by
Confluence Academy, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to erect one non-illuminated wall signs, per
plans, at 5441 Thekla Ave. WARD 27
#AB500816-12 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #10078 – Appeal filed by
Confluence Academy, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to erect two non-illuminated wall signs, per
plans, at 4235 S. Compton. WARD 25
#AB500817-12 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District
APPEAL #9928 – Appeal filed by
Salam’s Tire & Auto Service, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the revocation of a use variance and
occupancy permit, with conditions,
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
auto sales, auto repair (no body work) and
tire repair and sales business at 2616 N.
Florissant. (Revocation Hearing) WARD 5
#AO495246-11 ZONE: “G” – Local
Commercial & Office District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
There will not be a public hearing held
by the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, November 21, 2012 in Room

208 City Hall.

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday, November 15, 2012 on the
following conditional uses:

9723 Riverview - #AO-501971-12 Whispering Waters Retreat (Bed & Breakfast/
Guesthouse) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 2

3305 S 7th St. - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Rorie Construction (Home Remodeling/
Office Use Only) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 9

5933 Theodosia - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Hands on Homes, LLC (Contractor/
Office Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling
District. Te Ward 22

4110 Botanical - Home Occupancy
Waiver - K & K Senior Services, LLC (Home
Services-Seniors/Office Use Only) “B” Two
Family Dwelling District. Db Ward 8

2019 Lilly - Home Occupancy Waiver Kurtis Hall Photography (Photography/
Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Db Ward 10

5029 Cabanne - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Teamwork Heating & Air
Conditioning & Home Improvement (Heating/
Cooling/Home Improvement/Office Use
Only) “C” Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Db Ward 18

389 N. Euclid - #AO-501869-12 - CWE
Elite Fitness (Fitness Studio/Classes/No
Showers/1st fl) “F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward 28

5461 Gravois - #AO-501892-12 - Bio
Transformation Center (Consulting/
Counseling/Office w/Classes) “F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward 13

4658 Gravois - #AO-501381-12 Papagayo’s Inc. (Grocery Store/Full Drink
Bar/Sit Down Restaurant) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 14

4389 West Pine - #AO-501982-12 Memory Care Home Solutions (Office Space)
“E”-Multiple Family Dwelling District. Te
Ward 17

6413 Clayton - #AO-501733-12 Heavy Riff Brewing Company (Bar/Micro
Brewery/No Outside Seating) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward
24
3433 Hampton - #AB-502000-12 -The
Ink Spot (Construct Parking Lot/Zoning
Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling District.
Db “F” Neighborhood Commercial District
Ward 12
6840 Bleeck - #AB-501691-12 - Laclede
Gas (Construct Utility Enclosure per plans)
“G” Local Commercial and Office District.
Te Ward 24
1151 S. Kingshighway - #AB-50191212 - Subway (Interior & Exterior Alterations
per plans for Existing Restaurant/Rehab
Existing Building w/Drive-Thru/Zoning Only)
“G” Local Commercial and Office District.
Db Ward 17

3915 Lindell Blvd. - #AB-490155-11CVS Pharmacy (Construct Commercial
Building per plans for Pharmacy w/Clinic/
Drive Thru) “H” Area Commercial District.
Bl Ward 18

4247 Maffitt - Home Daycare-Brighter
Future Daycare (Home Daycare/7 Days/6am
to 5am/10 Children/5 Infants/3 2 ½ to 4
toddlers/2 school age) “C”-Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Db Ward 4

PUBLIC NOTICE
There will not be a Conditional Use
Hearing held at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday,
November 22, 2012 in Room 208 City Hall
because of the holiday.

Public Comments Requested
for Proposed Cleanup at
3300 Wisconsin

The Land Reutilization Authority of the
City of St. Louis is applying for a Brownfield
Cleanup Grant from the US Environmental
Protection Agency. If awarded, the cleanup
would take place at 3300 Wisconsin Avenue,
St. Louis, MO, 63118, in the Benton Park
Neighborhood, 9th Ward. A public meeting will
be held to get input on the Grant Application
and the Analysis of Brownfield Cleanup
Alternatives. The meeting is Tuesday, Nov. 6
at 7:00 PM at Epiphany Church in Benton
Park at 2911 McNair, St. Louis MO 63118.
The documents listed above are available for
review at www.stlouis-mo.gov/sldc/
brownfields/ and also at the Market address
listed above. Comments should be sent to Amy
Lampe, Major Project Specialist, at

LampeA@stlouis-mo.gov or 314-657-3737.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
The Public Safety Committee of the
Board of Aldermen has $615,000 available to
appropriate for programs aimed at the
prevention of crime in the City of St. Louis
for calendar year 2013. The Committee is
seeking proposals from qualified not-for-profit
organizations to serve youth at risk, targeting
male and female youth between the ages of 11
and 18. For the purposes of this RFP, crime
prevention programs are defined as those
programs that, either on an individual or group
level, work to instill the self discipline, self
control and self worth necessary to reduce
the likelihood of involvement in criminal
activity. Awards are not to exceed $100,000.
For more information, please contact Charlene
Deeken, Deputy Director of Public Safety at
314-622-3391, or visit stlouis-mo.gov and
click on Government, then see all RFPs,
RFQs, and RFI’s, and then Local Government
Services.
Proposals due: Tuesday, November
13, 2012. Closing time: 5:00 p.m. CST

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
TRAVEL AGENT FOR
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
The City of St. Louis is requesting sealed
proposals for a travel agent to serve the City
of St. Louis. Proposals will be accepted until
4:00 p.m. in the Comptroller’s Office, 1520
Market, Room 3005 on Monday, November
26, 2012. To receive a copy of the request for
proposal, please contact Ms. Joanna
Stoverink at 314-657-3416. The City of St.
Louis hereby notifies all bidders that it will
affirmatively insure that in any contract
entered into pursuant to this advertisement,
minority business enterprises will be afforded
full opportunity to submit bids in response
to this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The right
of the City of St. Louis to reject any and all
bids is expressly reserved.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
The City of St. Louis, Department of

Public Safety is seeking proposals from
qualified consultants or consulting firms to
conduct a combined assessment of the civilian
and uniform staffing needs and performance
of the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department and the St. Louis Fire
Department, including its Emergency Medical
Service Division. The assessment sought
contemplates that the affected agencies will
be examined jointly, with a view towards using
objective performance and operational data
and national best practices to evaluate
productivity and recommend measures to
improve public safety services and promote
operational efficiency, including consolidation,
integration, geographical organization, work
load management, personnel assignment, and
geographical placement and sharing of fixed
assets, rolling stock and other infrastructure.
For a copy of the RFP, visit stlouis-mo.gov
and click on Government, then see all RFPs,
RFQs, and RFIs, and then Local Government
Services. Proposals due: Friday, December
14, 2012. Closing time: 5 p.m., CST. Call
Eddie Roth at (314) 622-3391 for short
procedural inquiries only.

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is NOVEMBER
9, 2012.

AUDIT SUPERVISOR
Prom./O.C. 1947
$54,860 to $83,382 (Annual Salary Range)

PROGRAMMER/ANALYST III
(SENIOR GIS ANALYST)
Prom./O.C. 1946
$62,946 to $95,784 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114

Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at http://
stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
October 31, 2012

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
NOVEMBER 6, 2012 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012
LOCKERS, 36IN L X 18IN D X 72IN
H DOUBLE TIER
for ANIMAL REGULATIONS per REQ.
#53. (SC)

STEEL, BARS & GRATES
for MSI (MEDIUM SECURITY
INSTITUTION) per REQ. #74. (BF)

PRESSURE WASHERS
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #86. (BF)

FIELD MARKER/PAINT SPRAYER
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #88. (LC)

MARKER, FIELD – DRY LINE
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #89. (LC)

BADGES, BLOCKINGTON, CO2
for CJC (CITY JUSTICE CENTER) per
REQ. #103. (RN)

BADGES, BLOCKINGTON, CO1
for CJC (CITY JUSTICE CENTER) per
REQ. #104. (RN)

BADGES, BLOCKINGTON, CO3
for CJC (CITY JUSTICE CENTER) per
REQ. #124. (RN)

CONTROLLER PREUMATIC
for AIRPORT AUTHORITY per REQ. #162.
(BF)

FIBERGLASS REINFORCED VINYL
ESTER FLANGED BALL VALVES
for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1180.
(BF)

HORIZONTAL HYDRONIC UNIT
HEATERS
for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1183.
(BF)

EXPANSION MATERIAL
GRISWOLD RUBBER
for WATER DIVISION per REQ. #1184.
(BF)

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012
ROOFING STEEL
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #85. (BF)

FOUNTAIN, DRINKING-CONCRETE
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #87. (BF)

CONTROLLER,
AUTOMATIC BACK WASH
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #90. (LC)

SOFTBALLS, 12 INCH, RAWLINGS
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #91. (LC)

DRUMS, STEEL – 55 GALLON
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #92. (BF)

BARRICADES, BIKE RACK STEEL
for PARKS DIVISION per REQ. #93. (BF)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids

To download bids log on to:
http://stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm
then, search available bids.

You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property

Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved.

Freddie L. Dunlap
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

