The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2013-2014
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, January 24, 2014.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

Chambers January 24, 2014.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Bosley,
Moore, Hubbard, Ingrassia, Young, Conway,
Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz, Florida,
Roddy, Kennedy, Davis, Schmid, French,
Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 24

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Ms. Young moved to approve the
minutes for January 10, 2014.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

I wish to report that on the 24th day of
January, 2014, I delivered to the Office of the

Mayor of the City of St. Louis the following
board bill that was truly agreed to and finally
adopted.

Board Bill No. 264
An ordinance approving an amendment
to the boundaries of the Orpheum Theatre
Community Improvement District removing
the property at 421 N. 8th Street (parcel no.
01940000141) therefrom; making findings
with respect thereto; authorizing certain
actions by city officials; and containing a
severability clause.
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
City of St. Louis
Room 200 City Hall
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
(314) 622-3201
January 24, 2014
Honorable Board of Aldermen
Room 230 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103
Dear Member of the Boards:
I have the pleasure to submit the
following individuals for appointment to the
East Loop Parkway Gardens Special Business
District:
The appointment of Ms. Sharon Echols,
who resides at 6193 Delmar, and whose term
will expire on December 31, 2017.
The appointment of Ms. Lisa Anne
Houdyshell, who resides at 6161 Delmar, and
whose term will expire on December 31, 2015.
I respectfully request your approval of
these appointments.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS G. SLAY
Mayor
Ms. Krewson moved to approve the
following individuals for appointment to the
East Loop Parkway Gardens Special Business
District: Sharon Echols and Lisa Anne
Houdyshell.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Young introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 289
An Ordinance Approving The Petition
Of An Owner Of Certain Real Property To
Establish A Community Improvement
District, Establishing The Magnolia
Community Improvement District, Finding
A Public Purpose For The Establishment Of
The Magnolia Community Improvement
District, Authorizing the Execution of a
Transportation Project Agreement Between
The City And The Magnolia Transportation
Development District, Prescribing The Form
And Details Of Said Agreement, Making
Certain Findings With Respect Thereto,
Authorizing Other Related Actions In
Connection With The TDD Project, And
Containing An Emergency Clause And
Containing A Severability Clause.
Ms. Young to suspend the rules for the
purposing of introducing Board Bill No. 290.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Bosley, Moore, Hubbard,
Ingrassia, Young, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa,
Arnowitz, Florida, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis,
Schmid, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Williamson,
Carter, Krewson and President Reed. 21
Noes: 0
Present: Cohn. 1
Board Member Young introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 290
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and the Comptroller, on behalf of
the City, to enter into and execute one or more
Amended and Restated Redevelopment
Agreements with respect to the Downtown
Convention Center Hotel; prescribing the form
and details of said agreements; terminating the
St. Louis Convention Center Hotel
Community Improvement District; approving
a petition for the establishment of the St. Louis
Convention Center Hotel 2 Community
Improvement District; authorizing an

amendment to an existing Intergovernmental
Cooperation and Transportation Project
Agreement; authorizing certain other actions
of City officials; and containing an emergency
clause and a severability clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE OF
BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bill No. 290.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
None.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bill No. 289.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Conway of the Committee on
Transportation and Commerce submitted the
following report which was read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
January 24, 2014.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Transportation and
Commerce to whom was referred the
following Board Bills, report that they have
considered the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 268

An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Comptroller and the Board of Estimate and

Apportionment, making certain findings with
respect to the transfer of up to Thirteen
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars
($13,727,769) of excess moneys that The City
of St. Louis (the “City”), the owner and
operator of Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”), intends to transfer
from the Debt Service Stabilization Fund (the
“DSSF”) to the Airport Revenue Fund (the
“Revenue Fund”) in accordance with Section
516.B of the Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® Indenture of Trust between the City,
as Grantor, and UMB Bank, N.A., as Trustee,
dated as of October 15, 1984, as amended and
restated as of July 1, 2009, as amended and
supplemented (the “Indenture”); authorizing
a transfer in an amount not to exceed Thirteen
Million Seven Hundred Twenty-Seven
Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Nine Dollars
($13,727,769) from the DSSF into the
Revenue Fund to be used to make funds
available to mitigate rates on an annual basis
during the term of the Airport Use and Lease
Agreement commencing July 1, 2011;
containing a severability clause; and containing
an emergency clause.

Alderman Conway
Chairman of the Committee

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
Ms. Young moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 269, 270, 267, 261, 281, 282, 272,
256, 279, 280 and 285.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
Ms. Krewson requested that Board Bill
No. 277 be placed on the Board Bills for
Perfection - Informal Calendar.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 202 through 205 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 202
Jill Claybour
WHEREAS, Jill Claybour, Acting
Executive Director of the Community
Development Administration, retired after 36
years of dedicate service to the City of St.
Louis; and

WHEREAS, Jill began her career with
the City of St. Louis in 1977 as appointment
secretary to Mayor James Conway; and
WHEREAS, in 1978, Jill became the
Administrative Assistant/Transportation
Coordinator for the Mayor’s Office;
WHEREAS, in 1985, Jill was appointed
as the Director of Transportation Planning
for the Community Development Agency; and
WHEREAS, in 1996, Jill became the
Director of Housing Development for the
Community Development Agency, working
to improving residential development in the
City of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, Jill is a licensed Real Estate
Broker in the State of Missouri; and
WHEREAS, Jill is a Certified Housing
Development Finance Professional through
the National Development Council’s
Certification Program; and
WHEREAS, over 1,100 housing units
have been newly constructed or extensively
rehabilitated through CDA’s Housing
Development Program under Jill’s oversight;
and
WHEREAS, in 2006, Jill was appointed
as the Acting Executive Director of the
Community Development Administration,
and has held that position longer than her
predecessors since the creation of the CDA in
1974. Jill has proven herself to be an essential
asset to the Community Development
Administration in her position over the past
seven plus years, and her rich knowledge has
made her an invaluable employee of the City
of St. Louis; and
WHEREAS, on behalf of this Board of
Aldermen, we are honored to join the staffs of
the
Community
Development
Administration, the Planning and Urban

Design Agency, St. Louis Development
Corporation, and the Affordable Housing
Commission in commending Jill Claybour for
her outstanding service to the City of St. Louis
and extending best wishes to her for continued
success in her retirement.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and thank Jill
Claybour and wish her well upon her
retirement from the City of St. Louis and
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree.
Introduced on the 24th day of January, 2014
by:
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard
Honorable Christine Ingrassia,Alderwoman 6thWard
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8thWard
HonorableKennethA.Ortmann,Alderman9thWard
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard
Honorable Thomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard
HonorableAlfredWessels, Jr.,Alderman 13thWard
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14thWard
Honorable JenniferFlorida,Alderwoman 15thWard
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20thWard
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24thWard
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25thWard
Honorable FrankWilliamson,Alderman 26thWard

Resolution No. 203

Billy Peek
WHEREAS, the members of the St.
Louis Board of Aldermen feel it is altogether
fitting and proper to recognize the tremendous
influence the tradition of entertainment St.
Louis individuals have had locally as well as
worldwide; and

WHEREAS, St. Louis can be proud of
the contribution made by local artist who went
on to outstanding careers in the field of music;
Chuck Berry, Ike and Tina Turner, Oliver Sain,
Johnny Johnson and Little Milton, to name
just a few; and

WHEREAS, Billy Peek is among this

distinguished list of artist who have given St.
Louis it’s well deserved reputation as a music
capital; and

WHEREAS, for over 50 years Billy Peek
has had great performances with such notable
performers as Chuck Berry, Ike and Tina
Turner, and Johnny Johnson. Billy Peek also
world tours as lead guitarist for Rod Stewart.
Billy Peek is truly an icon in the music
business, especially with his hometown St.
Louis, where fans young and old who continue
to pack his concerts; and

WHEREAS, the citizens of St. Louis
are proud to call Billy Peek a hometown boy
and are grateful for his musical contribution
to our community.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Billy Peek for
over 50 years of musical accomplishments and
may he continue for many more years and
enjoy success and happiness. Furthermore,
we direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a
copy of this Resolution across the minutes of
these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 24th day of January, 2014
by:
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2ndWard
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard
Honorable Thomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14thWard
Honorable JenniferFlorida,Alderwoman 15thWard
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20thWard
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen

Resolution No. 204

Minister Ishmael R. Muhammad
WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael R.
Muhammad was born on June 21, 1964 in
Albuquerque, New Mexico to the Leader of
the nation of Islam, the Most Honorable Elijah
Muhammad and to the writer, lecturer designer
and composer, Mother Tynnetta Muhammad;
and

WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael
Muhammad has served his Father, The
Honorable Elijah Muhammad and his
Spiritual Father, The Honorable Louis
Farrakhan for over 30 years; and

WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael enjoys
the distinct honor and privilege of serving as
the Assistant Minister to the Honorable
Minister Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of
Islam’s headquarters in Chicago; and
WHEREAS, as one of Minister
Farrakhan’s trusted and able helpers, he is
influential in the Nation of Islam’s leadership
structure and ministry. Minister Ishmael’s
extensive background in Quranic and Biblical
Scriptures has afforded his audiences the
opportunity to examine man’s connection,
duty and future as it relates to God. His love
for the human family has given him the ability
to transcend the ethnic, racial and spiritual
barriers that have historically divided the
people of the world. His spirited, thoughprovoking lecturers have inspired thousands;
and
WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael is skilled
organizer and served as one of the principal
coordinators of the Historic Million Man
march that drew over a million Black men to
Washington, D.C. He has been instrumental
in the planning and organizing of events and
conferences throughout the United States and
has been featured in local, national and
international print and broadcast media; and
WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael has taken
great pride in his ability to successfully
counsel conflict resolution, domestic issues,
child abuse, interpersonal relations and other
areas. An extremely gifted and capable speaker,
Minister Ishmael has lectured in churches,
prisons, and on a number of college campuses.
His diverse background, coupled with his
compelling and passionate deliveries are sure
to positively touch anyone who hears him
speak; and
WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael is a world
traveler whose travels have taken him to
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jerusalem, Pakistan,
West Africa, Europe, New Zealand and South
America. Minister Ishmael resided and
studied in Cuernavaca, Mexico for 17 years.
He is bilingual, speaking both fluent Spanish
and English; and
WHEREAS, Minister Ishmael is a loving
husband and father of seven; devoted family
man; dedicated Minister and Student of life;
and servant of the people. He stands as a fine
example and role model for black men and
women everywhere and as an outstanding
spokesman for the upliftment of Black people
and humanity throughout the world.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our

deliberations to recognize Minister Ishmael
R. Muhammad and we wish him continued
success, achievement and accomplishment and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 24th day of January, 2014
by:
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard

Resolution No. 205

Okley Clark
WHEREAS, we come together in
celebration of the 98th birthday of Okley
Clark who was born January 26, 1916 in
Thomasville Arkansas, an all African American
town that was destroyed by the Klansmen;
and

WHEREAS, he moved to Chicago,
Illinois where he was gainfully employed as
atailor and married the late Bessie Scruggs
Clark and to this union three daughters were
born, Merdean, Odessa and Janice; and

WHEREAS, he moved to St. Louis,
Missouri and worked for the terminal railroad
as a messenger and freight car switcher. He
has given to this community remarkable
service through many business endeavors
which include owner of Subway Cleaners,
Texaco Service Station, Ringside Athletic Club
Inc., where many outstanding professional
boxers trained such as Archie Moore, Henry
Armstrong, and Fernita Cox. Younger, aspiring
men had the opportunity to be trained and
become disciplined in the sport and where
local singing artist had the opportunity to
record their music in the ringside studio, Senior
Talent Boxing Association. The Clark Sodding
Company, which was one of the first African
American owned landscaping companies, to
give distinguished beauty to subdivisions,
highways, service stations, universities and
other institutions of the metropolitan area.
He was an active member of the 22nd Ward;
and

WHEREAS, his love of photography
and video taping has given him a rare collection
depicting outstanding important civic and
social events of our city, state and nation. He
spends many hours gardening, growing
vegetables for family and friends; and

WHEREAS, he has always been an
active churchman serving in many capacities
including that of trustee and as a member of
Mount Zion Missionary Baptist Church

where the pastor is the Reverend Doctor
Sammie E. Jones, there he gives of his time,
talent and treasure to the up building of Gods
Kingdom and in assisting others.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Mr. Okley Clark
on the occasion of his 98tj Birthday and we
wish him continued peace, good health and
happiness and we further direct the Clerk of
this Board to spread a copy of this Resolution
across the minutes of these proceedings and
to prepare a commemorative copy to the end
that it may be presented to our honoree at a
time and place deemed appropriate by the
Sponsor.
Introduced on the 24th day of January, 2014
by:
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 202 through 205
stood considered.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 202 through 205 be adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Ortmann.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READINGS OF
RESOLUTIONS
Mr. Kennedy introduced Resolution No.
201 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 201
WHEREAS, The Office of the Assessor
of the City of St. Louis had completed its
reassessment of all real property located in
the City of St. Louis as required by state statue
and the State Tax Commission; and
WHEREAS, section 137.115 RSMo.
provides for the maintenance of up-dated
assessments on an on-going basis pursuant to
an assessment and equalization maintenance
plan adopted by the local assessor; and
WHEREAS, under and by the authority
of section 137.115 RSMo., the governing body
of the City of St. Louis is required to approve
such assessment and equalization maintenance
plan for the maintenance of updated
assessments; and
WHEREAS, the proposed maintenance
plan for the City of St. Louis for the period of
January 1, 2914 through December 31, 2015
has been prepared and is available for public
inspection in the Office of the Clerk of the
Board of Aldermen.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that the assessment and
equalization maintenance plan prepared by
the Assessor is hereby approved as required
by law.
Introduced on the 24th day of January 2014
by:
HonorableTerry Kennedy,Alderman 18th Ward
Mr. Kennedy moved that Resolution No.
201 be referred to the Ways and Means
Committee.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING OF
RESOLUTIONS
Mr. Roddy introduced Resolution No.
33 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 33
WHEREAS, the Missouri History
Museum has been a part of the St. Louis
community since 1866, and joined the
Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum
District (ZMD) in 1988; and
WHEREAS, the Metropolitan
Zoological Park and Museum District’s annual
tax revenue has increased from $3.9 million
dollars in 1972 to more than $73 million dollars
in 2011 and approximately 15% of that
revenue is provided by St. Louis City
residents; and
WHEREAS, according to the 2011 IRS
Form 990 the vast majority of the Missouri
History Museum’s expenses are paid out of
taxpayer funds received from the
Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum
District; and
WHEREAS, the salary, compensation,
earnings and benefits of the executive directors
of the Metropolitan Zoological Park and
Museum District were the subject previously
reviewed by the Parks and Environmental
Matters Committee under the authority of
Resolution #63 which was passed on May 7,
2010 ; and
WHEREAS, most recently the chairman
of the Parks and Environmental Matters
Committee has received a written request of
the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the
Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum
District to assist in the investigation of various
aspects of governance of the Missouri History
Museum, and the president of the Missouri
History Museum’s compensation and
management policies that have embroiled that
organization in controversy; and

WHEREAS, the St Louis Board of
Aldermen should work to assure that its
taxpaying public have confidence that their
taxes are wisely spent; and

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 200 was
unanimously approved on December 14, 2012
to convene the initial hearings and further
hearings and review are necessary.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen for
the City of St. Louis that we direct the Parks
and Environmental Matters Committee of this
board to continue to convene hearings for the
purpose of examining the structure and
organization of the Missouri History
Museum, executive compensation, and all
other related matters and we further direct the
committee to include in such discussion Mr.
Ray Stranghoener, chairman, and Dr. Robert
R. Archibald, President of the Missouri
History Museum and all other parties and
documents deemed appropriate and necessary
by the Parks and Environmental Matters
Committee to conduct a fair and thorough
investigation..
Introduced on the 3rd day of May, 2013 by:
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard

Mr. Roddy reported that the Resolution
No. 33 report was approved by the Parks and
Environmental Matters Committee.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
No.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Ms. Young moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Tyus, Ms. Flowers, Mr.
Wessels, Ms. Howard and Ms. Baringer.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT

Ms. Young moved to adjourn under rules
to return January 31, 2014.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - January 28, 2014

The Board met at 1:45 p.m.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Deeken and President
Bradley.
Absent: Director Bess. (excused)
Request of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Forestry to be excused from
the Regular Meeting of January 28, 2014 was
read and leave of absence granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
January 21, 2014 were unanimously
approved, as they appear of record in the
Minute Book.

LETTINGS
Seven sealed proposals for the public
work advertised under Letting No. 8539 Berra Park Comfort Station was received,
publicly opened, read and referred to the
President.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by Board
Members and action thereon taken as follows:

PRESIDENT
Preliminary approval be given and 10
days granted in which to sign same:
Letting No. 8533 - Concrete and Brick
Removal/Replacement and Complete
Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-91,
Crafton Contracting Company, 102 Crafton
Drive, O’Fallon, MO 63366, Amount:
$707,796.50
Letting No. 8535 - Concrete and Brick
Removal/Replacement and Complete
Sidewalk Installation, Project No. SP-92, J.L.
Brown Contracting Service Inc., 5141 No.
Hanley, St. Louis, MO 63134, Amount:
$707,208.00
Missouri Highway and Transportation
Commission STP-Urban Program Agreement
between the City of St. Louis, Missouri and
Missouri Highways and Transportation
Commission for the Newstead Avenue
Improvement approved and President
authorized to execute same.
Emergency Work Orders issued for the
month of December 2013 by the Department
of the President and Facilities Management
Division, Board of Public Service, for
emergency work and repairs requiring prompt

attention ordered approved.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
5 Permits for land consolidations ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions as
follows: 120071, Edward J. Wahoff II, 5837
Southwest in C.B. 4050S, 120078, Northrup
Properties LLC, 5151 and 5201 Northrup in
C.B. 3998.12, 120079, Nicholas P. and
Margaret Collira, 7201-03-07 Picadilly in C.B.
5100, 120100, Aaron J. Calhoun, 4614-18
Enright in C.B. 3760 and, 120102, Garrett
Family Properties LLC, Compton and Park
in C.B. 2156.
2 Permits for subdividions ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions as
follows: 120099, Rhino Ventures LLC, 4535
McRee and 1525-1601 So. Vandeventer in
C.B. 4097 and, 120103, Diversified Real
Estate, 1412 Mississippi in C.B. 1809.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Draft of the following ordinance
approved, and the Secretary instructed to
forward same to the Board of Aldermen with
recommendation that it be passed.
“An Ordinance to conditionally vacate
a portion of Kemper Avenue beginning 82.34”
west of Hereford and continuing 157.66 feet
to apoint previously vacated by Ordinance
68544.”
3 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 120073,
Playtime Academy, encroach with 7 to 10
bollards in front of 3739 Page, 120074,
Lohmann’s Restaurant Holdings Co. LLC d/
b/a Tycho’s, encroach with existing awning at
6655 Manchester which runs the
approximately length of the building along
Kraft, 120075, Lohmann’s Restaurant
Holdings Co. LLC d/b/a Tycho’s, encroach
with existing lighted entryway canopy to cover
a new wheelchair ramp at 6655 Manchester.

DIRECTORS OF STREETS AND
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
Application No. 120072, Children’s
Turner Foundation, hold event on Market
from 2300 Market to No. Ewing on February
15, 2014 ordered approved, subject to certain
conditions.

DIRECTOR OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND FORESTRY
Agreement between Unlimited Play and
the City of St. Louis regarding the installation
of two universally accessible playgrounds in
two City parks i.e. O’Fallon and Willmore,
approved and President authorized to execute
same.

DIRECTOR OF
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS

Director of Health and Hospitals that
Board Order No. 792 pertaining to the
prohibition of smoking within 30 feet of any
city building ordered approved.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY

7 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved as recommended by the Hearing
Officer, per Board Order No. 766.

7 Approved with Conditions:
120012, 1704 So. Broadway, art gallery,
rental, artist co-op, café with no liquor and
no cooking,
120013, 4800 Austria, truck service
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
120014, 5208 Daggett, masonry
business (office use only) home occupancy
wavier,
120015, 4464 Greer, health care service
(office use only) home occupancy wavier,
120016, 2618 Pearl, internet sales
business (office use only) home occupancy
wavier,
120017, 3500 Russell, bed and breakfast
and guest house with 5 guest room
120018, 4600 Gravois, full drink bar, no
cooking, change of ownership.

Addendum No. 1 to Agenda Items for
January 28, 2014 ordered approved.
Agenda Items for January 28, 2014
ordered approved.

The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
February 4, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

Hearing No. 8160 ordered continued
concerning revocation of Permit No. 84777,
New Life Evangelistic Center Inc., 1411
Locust, to operate a rooming house or hotel
that is detrimental to the neighborhood
pursuant to Ordinance 61971, as codified by
Chapter 11.72 of the Revised Code of the
City of St. Louis, to a date determined by the
Board after consulting with the parties.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING
SERVICES FOR DESIGN OF
NEWSTEAD AVENUE IMPROVEMENTS,
ST. LOUIS AVENUE TO NATURAL
BRIDGE AVENUE, FEDERAL PROJECT
STP-5407(615), ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.
Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00 P.M.,
CT, February 6, 2014 at Board of Public
Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City Hall,
St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be obtained
from website www.stl-bps.org, under On Line
Plan Room, or call Bette Behan at 314-5896214. 16% DBE participation goal.

PUBLIC NOTICE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD UBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for Construction Supervision and Material
Testing for the Reconstruction of Taxiway
Echo from Taxiway Sierra to Taxiway Papa;
the Removal of Taxiway Echo from
Runway 6/24 to Taxiway Sierra; and the
Reconstruction of the North Apron (Lima
Pad) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport®. Statements of Qualifications due
by 5:00 P.M., CT, February 10, 2014 at Board
of Public Service, 1200 Market, Room 301
City Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may
be obtained from website www.stl-bps.org,
under On Line Plan Room, or call Bette Behan
at 314-589-6214. 11% DBE participation
goal.

PUBLIC NOTICE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE

REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for Professional Engineering Design
Services for the Reconstruction of Taxiway
Foxtrot from Taxiway Kilo to Taxiway
Juliet; and the Reconstruction of Taxiway
Juliet from Taxiway Foxtrot to Runway
30R at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport®. Statements of Qualifications due
by 5:00 P.M., CT, February 10, 2014 at Board
of Public Service, 1200 Market, Room 301
City Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may
be obtained from website www.stl-bps.org,
under the On Line Plan Room, or call Bette
Behan at 314-589-6214. DBE participation
goal is 9%.

PUBLIC NOTICE
There will be a public hearing held by
the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 12, 2014 in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL #10345 – Appeal filed by
MIDO’S Trucking LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an office,
truck repair service and a truck terminal with
outside storage of trucks at 9250 Riverview
Dr. WARD 2 #AO510718-13 ZONE:
“K” – Unrestricted District
APPEAL #10346 – Appeal filed by D
Market, from the determination of the Board
of Public Service in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a
convenience store, no cooking and no liquor,
at 3401 Winnebago. WARD 20 #AO50981513 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District BPS120018
APPEAL #10347 – Appeal filed by
Ranieri Construction, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to install two illuminated monument signs,
per plans, at 1300 Hampton. WARD 24
#AB511166-14 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District
APPEAL #10348 – Appeal filed by Mid
America Transplant Services, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to install one non-illuminated
wall sign, per plans, at 1110 E Highlands Plaza.
WARD 17 #AB510739-13 ZONE: “H” –
Area Commercial District
APPEAL #10349 – Appeal filed by
Cortona & Forest Park, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to install one illuminated wall
sign and one illuminated ground sign, per plans,
at 5800 Highlands Plaza Drive. WARD 17
#AB510740-13 ZONE: “H” – Area
Commercial District
APPEAL #10325 – Appeal filed by
Austin Barzantny, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
convert a two family building into a four
family building, zoning only, at 4467 Gibson.
(Table) WARD 17 #AB509516-13 ZONE:
“B” – Two Family Dwelling District

In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

There will be a public hearing held by
the Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, February 19, 2014 in Room 208
City Hall to consider the following:

APPEAL #10350 – Appeal filed by
South St. Louis Marine Corp, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a full
drink meeting/banquet hall with a kitchen at
5700-12 Leona. WARD 13 #AO511115-14
ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District

APPEAL #10351 - Appeal filed by K-9
Paradise, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a pet center with training, boarding,
daycare and retail sales, 1st floor, at 3000
Wyoming. WARD 9 #AO511175-14 ZONE:
“B” – Two Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10352 – Appeal filed by
Carrollton Bank, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
do interior alterations, per plans, for a bank at
5807 Murdoch. WARD 16 #AB510903-13
ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District

APPEAL #10353 – Appeal filed by
Nager and Sons, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
construct a bay, per plans, for an auto repair
business at 2863 S. Jefferson. WARD 9
#AB509262-13 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #10327 – Appeal filed by
Sunross Auto Rebuilders/Sales, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate an auto
repair and sales business with inside and
outside storage at 2116 Farrar. (Cont) WARD
3 #AO509363-13 ZONE: “B” – Two
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10334 – Appeal filed by
Trinity Episcopal Church, from the

determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to do interior and exterior
alterations and an addition for a church, per
plans, at 4761 Washington. (Table) WARD
18 #AB510455-13 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday February 13, 2014 on the following
conditional uses:

3654 Fillmore - Home Occupancy Waiver
- Becky Roesch Photography (Portrait
Photography/Office Use Only) “B” Two
Family Dwelling District. Ah Ward 11

3950 Potomac - Home Occupancy
Waiver - J.M. Residential, LLC (Home Repair/
Remodeling/Office Use Only) “B” Two
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 15

1019 N 9 th St. - Home Occupancy
Waiver - On The Marc Paragliding (Paragliding/
Sales/Office Use Only) “D” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 5

2831 Lafayette - Home Occupancy
Waiver - Lafayette & Oregon Town Homes,
LLC (Real Estate Development/Office Use
Only) “C” Multiple Family Dwelling District.
Te Ward 6

4331 Natural Bridge - #AO-51121614-Natural Bridge Supermarket, LLC
(Supermarket/Package Liquor/No Cooking)
“F”-Neighborhood Commercial District. Ah
Ward 21

4746 Gravois - #AO-511267-14Miniature Museum (Miniature Museum/Gift
Shop/Classroom/Exhibits/1st & 2nd fls) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District. Te Ward
14

1400 Grattan - #AB-511160-14-Joe
Sweitzer, Jr. (Construct Commercial Building
for School/Zoning Only) “H”- Area
Commercial District. Bl Ward 7

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on

Thursday February 20, 2014 on the following
conditional uses:
4930 Delor - Home Occupancy WaiverPretty City Gardens & Landscapes, LLC
(Landscape/Lawn care/Office Use Only) “A”
Single Family Dwelling District. Ah Ward
14
4979 Nagel - Home Occupancy WaiverTop Tier Siding & Windows (Construction/
Office Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District. Ah Ward 12
5047 Gravois - #AO-511344-14Pebbles Little People Care (Daycare/49
Children/2 ½ to 12 yrs./Mon to Sat/6am to
12midn/No Cooking) “G” Local Commercial
and Office District. Ah Ward 14
2901 Parnell - #AB-511380-14-Klitzing
Welsch Associates, Inc. (Interior & Exterior
Alterations per plans for Dog Training
Facility) “G”-Local Commercial and Office
District. Bl Ward 3

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
CITY COUNSELOR'S OFFICE
The City of St. Louis is seeking sealed
proposals from qualified court reporters and/
or court reporting firms to provide services in
connection with depositions taken by
attorneys with the City Counselor’s Office.
The Request for Proposal may be
obtained from the City’s website at
http://www.stlouis-mo.gov/government/
departments/counselor/index.cfm or at the
City Counselor’s Office, 1200 Market Street,
Room 314, St. Louis, MO 63103.
Sealed proposals will be received until
5:00P.M., on Tuesday February 11, 2014,
by the Office of the City Counselor, 1200
Market Street, Room 314, St. Louis, MO
63103.
The City reserves the right to accept or
reject any and/or all responses and to waive
any and/or all nonmaterial irregularities.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS
The Office of the Mayor, on behalf of
the City of St. Louis, is soliciting proposals
from qualified firms or organizations (e.g., sole
practitioners, law firms, or debt collection

agencies) authorized to do business in the City
and State of Missouri, through competitive
negotiations, to provide debt collection
services for delinquent accounts receivable,
subject to satisfactory performance, and
subject to all conditions as outlined in the
Request for Proposal (RFP).

As is the case in many local governments,
the City of St. Louis has numerous operating
departments and agencies that conduct
separate billing and collections activity for
various charges, fees, and fines. The City
seeks assistance from an experienced
professional to help collect additional revenue
to further strengthen its operating budget and
allow the City to provide more services to its
citizens.
The RFP may be obtained on line at:

http://www.stlouis-mo.gov/government/
procurement.cfm

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP – MOVE
MOVING SERVICES

Sealed bids of the above will be received
at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Purchasing, 1200
Clark Avenue, Room 605, St. Louis, Missouri
63103, until 11:00 a.m. local time, Friday,
March 7, 2014, when they will be opened
publicly and announced.

Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of Purchasing by
prospective bidders upon request in person
or by telephone during regular business hours.
A mandatory pre-bid meeting and
walkthrough will take place at 1200 Clark
at 1 p.m. on Tuesday, February 18, 2014.

Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department shall be entitled to recover any
damages resulting from termination.

The Metropolitan Police Department
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Department
also reserves the right to consider criteria other

than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Department will
consider the location of the business, minority
interest in the business, prior performance and
the bid submitted in relation to the needs of
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5996 or can be accessed at
http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
BRAD TURNER
BUYER
ST. LOUIS METROPOLITAN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
BNTURNER@SLMPD.ORG

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP – INSTALL
FURNITURE INSTALLATION
AND CLEANING
Sealed bids of the above will be received

at the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Purchasing, 1200
Clark Avenue, Room 605, St. Louis, Missouri
63103, until 11:00 a.m. local time, Friday,
March 7, 2014, when they will be opened
publicly and announced.
Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of Purchasing by
prospective bidders upon request in person
or by telephone during regular business hours.
A mandatory pre-bid meeting and
walkthrough will take place at 1915 Olive
at 1 p.m. on Thursday, February 20, 2014.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department shall be entitled to recover any
damages resulting from termination.
The Metropolitan Police Department
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Department
also reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Department will
consider the location of the business, minority
interest in the business, prior performance and
the bid submitted in relation to the needs of
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5996 or can be accessed at

http://www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
BRAD TURNER
BUYER
ST. LOUIS METROPOLITAN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
BNTURNER@SLMPD.ORG

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is FEBRUARY 14,
2014.

PROGRAMMER/ANALYST I
Prom./O.C. 2101
$47,814 to $72,696 (Annual Salary Range)

The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is FEBRUARY 21,
2014.

HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II
Prom./O.C.2043
$30,394 to $45,968 (Annual Salary Range)

WATER PLANT
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Prom./O.C. 2102
$36,478 to $59,072 (Annual Salary Range)

Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.

Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114

Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
January 29, 2014

ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN

NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS
LIVING WAGE RATES
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2013

In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
(“Ordinance”) and the Regulations associated
therewith, the City Compliance Official for
the City of St. Louis has determined that the
following living wage rates are now in effect
for employees of covered contracts:
1)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are provided to the
employee, the living wage rate is
$12.21 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three); and

2)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are not provided to
the employee, the living wage rate is
$15.92 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three, plus fringe benefit
rates as defined in the Ordinance).

3)

Wages required under Chapter 6.20
of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis: $3.71 per hour.

These rates are based upon federal poverty
level income guidelines as defined in the
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of
April 1, 2013. These rates will be further
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty
level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services or
pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis.

The Ordinance applies to employers who are
covered by the Ordinance as defined in the
Ordinance, where the contract or grant is
entered into or renewed after the effective date
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or
obtained from:
City Compliance Official

Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Certification and Compliance Office
P.O. Box 10212
St. Louis, Mo 63145
(314) 426-8111
Dated: February 12, 2013

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS
CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER

Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
FEBRUARY 4, 2014 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2014
Pneumatic Valve Assembly
per Requisition #63314Q0226. (BF)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2014
Sprinkler Heads
per Requisition #63214Q0132. (BF)

HVAC Parts
per Requisition #63314Q0224. (JC)

Anodes
per Requisition #41514Q1118. (BF)

Submersible Dewatering Pump
per Requisition #41514Q1129. (BF)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids

To download bids log on to: http://
stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm then,
search available bids.

You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com.

Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products

The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever

possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

Local Preference
ORDINANCE #69431
Board Bill No. 295
Committee Substitute As Amended
An Ordinance repealing Section One,
part 86.040 of Ordinance 56716, pertaining
to the opening of bids, codified as Section
5.58.040 of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis, and enacting a new provision on the
same subject matter which allows a local bidder
to match the lowest bid when the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder; enacting a new
provision on the same subject matter;
containing severability clause.
WHEREAS, local businesses which seek
to enter into contracts with the City of St.
Louis are at a competitive disadvantage with
businesses from other areas because of the
higher administrative costs of doing business
in the City;
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis
desires to encourage businesses to remain in
the City and to relocate to the City;

WHEREAS, by enacting a local
preference law that allows a local firm to match
the lowest bid when its bid is within 2%
percent of the lowest bid, the City hopes to
encourage and stimulate local business.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION ONE. Section One, part
86.040, Ordinance 56716 is hereby repealed.

SECTION TWO. Enacted in lieu
thereof is the following new section.
5.58.040 - Opening of bids.
A. Proposals shall be opened at the time
and place fixed by the advertisement, in the
presence of such bidders as desire to be
present, and shall be open to the inspection
of bidders.

B. The bids shall not be materially
modified or amended as to price, specification
or otherwise, nor substitutions placed thereon,
after opening except when the lowest bid is
from a non-local bidder. When the lowest bid

is from a non-local bidder, any local bidder
within two percent of the lowest bid may
match the lowest bid. If a local bidder matches
the lowest bid, then the Supply Commissioner
may select the bid from the local bidder. If
more than one local bidder is within two
percent of the lowest bid, then only the lowest
local bidder may match the bid. In all other
circumstances, modification, supplementation
or amendment shall cause rejection of the bid.
For purposes of this chapter, local bidder
means a bidder whose principal place of
business is within the City of St. Louis, has
had a valid business license for at least one
year, and is current in payment of local taxes.
Principal place of business shall be defined as
the business’s physical office, plant, or site
where a majority (51%) of the full-time
employees, chief officer, and managers of the
business regularly work and conduct business,
or where the plant or office and equipment
required for the furnishing of the goods or
performance of the services provided to the
City, as required by the contract, are physically
located in the City of St. Louis for at least one
taxable year immediately prior to the date of
the bid.
C. Bids may be for one or more or all the
articles advertised for, but there shall be a
specific bid on each article. The award may be
made to the lowest bidder for any article, or
to the lowest bidder for the entire requisition
or any part thereof, but the Board of
Standardization may reject any or all bids or
any part of any bid.
SECTION THREE. Severability.
The provisions of this section are
severable. If any provision of this ordinance
is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions of the ordinance which
can be given effect without the invalid
provision.
Approved: April 29, 2013
The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved
Carol L. Shepard, CPA
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

