The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2014-2015
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, May 16, 2014.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

Aldermen answered to their names: Tyus,
Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard, Young, Conway,
Ortmann, Arnowitz, Murphy, Howard,
Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy, Davis,
Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie,
Williamson, Carter, Krewson, President
Reed. 24

PRAYER

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUEST
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Roddy moved to approve the
minutes for May 2, 2014.
Seconded by Mr. Vaccaro.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk of
the Board of Aldermen
None.

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR THIRD
READING - INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS
Board Member Kennedy and President
Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 59
An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters
of St. Louis City on August 2, 1994, pursuant
to Ordinance 63168 creating the “City Public
Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund” directing the
Treasurer of the City of St. Louis to deposit
funds received pursuant to said sales tax into
the “City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund
– Account ONE” appropriating $10,074,162
from the said sales tax for the period herein
stated to the Bi-State Development Agency
for certain purposes; providing for the
payment of such funds during the period July
1, 2014 through, June 30, 2015; further
providing that in no event shall the
Comptroller draw warrants on the Treasurer
for an amount greater than the amounts of the
proceeds deposited in the “City Public Transit
Sales Tax Trust Fund” during the period of
July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015; and
containing a severability clause.
Board Member Kennedy and President
Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 60
An Ordinance pertaining to the Transit
Sales Tax imposed pursuant to Section 94.660,
RSMo., as adopted and approved by the voters
of St. Louis City on November 4, 1997,
pursuant to Ordinance 64111 creating the
“City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund”
directing the Treasurer of the City of St. Louis
to deposit funds received pursuant to said
sales tax into the “City Public Transit Sales
Tax Trust Fund – Account TWO”
appropriating $10,074,162 from the said sales
tax for the period herein stated to the Bi-State
Development Agency for certain purposes;

providing for the payment of such funds
during the period July 1, 2014 through, June
30, 2015; further providing that in no event
shall the Comptroller draw warrants on the
Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amounts of the proceeds deposited in the
“City Public Transit Sales Tax Trust Fund”
during the period of July 1, 2014 through June
30, 2015; and containing a severability clause.
Board Member Kennedy and President
Reed introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 61
An ordinance appropriating the sum of
$20,153,420, as described and defined in
Section 94.600 through 94.655, R.S. Mo. 2000
as amended for the period herein stated, which
sum is hereby appropriated out of the
“Transportation Trust Fund” to the Bi-State
Development Agency for transportation
purposes; and further providing that the
appropriation is conditional upon the Bi-State
Development Agency supplying the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment an annual
evaluation report; further providing that in no
event shall the Comptroller draw warrants on
the Treasurer for an amount greater than the
amount of proceeds deposited in the
“Transportation Trust Fund” during the
period from July 1, 2014 through June 30,
2015; providing for the appropriation to be
reduced if certain funds are used for other than
public transit purposes; further providing that
the appropriation is conditional upon Bi-State
requiring the payment of prevailing wages and
benefits to employees of outside service
contractors; and containing a severability
clause.
Board Member Bosley introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 62
An ordinance recommended by the
Parking Commission making appropriation for
payment of the operating expenses, capital
equipment and improvement expenses,
including lease purchase agreements involving
Parking Division assets, and debt service
expenses of the Parking Division of the
Treasurer’s Office, Kiel & City Hall Parking
Facilities, Argyle Parking Facility, Chouteau
Building & Parking Facility, Williams Paper
Parking Facility, Central Downtown Parking
Facility, Buckingham Parking Facility,
Cupples Parking Facility and Justice Parking
Facility for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
2014 and ending June 30, 2015, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of Fourteen Million,
Seven Hundred Thirty Eight Thousand, Nine
Hundred Dollars ($14,738,900) and containing
an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bills No. 59, 60 and 61
Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Legislation
None.
Health and Human Services
None.
Public Employees
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bill No. 62
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Convention and Tourism
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Mr. Roddy of the Committee on
Housing, Urban Development and Zoning
submitted the following report which was
read.

Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 16, 2014.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:

The Committee on Housing, Urban
Development and Zoning to whom was
referred the following Board Bills, report that
they have considered the same and recommend
adoption.

Board Bill No. 39

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Mayor and the Comptroller, on behalf of
the City, to enter into and execute a First
Amendment to Amended and Restated
Redevelopment Agreement with respect to

the Downtown Convention Center Hotel;
prescribing the form and details of said
agreement; terminating the St. Louis
Convention Center Hotel 2 Community
Improvement District; approving a petition
for the establishment of the St. Louis
Convention Center Hotel 3 Community
Improvement District; authorizing an
amendment to an existing Intergovernmental
Cooperation and Transportation Project
Agreement; authorizing certain other actions
of City officials; and containing an emergency
clause and a severability clause.
Alderman Roddy
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Kennedy of the Committee on Ways
and Means submitted the following report
which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 16, 2014.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Ways and Means to
whom was referred the following Board Bills,
report that they have considered the same and
recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 41
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance approving the petition to
establish the Carrie Avenue Community
Improvement District, establishing the Carrie
Avenue Community Improvement District,
and finding a public purpose for the
establishment of the Carrie Avenue
Community Improvement District.
Alderman Kennedy
Chairman of the Committee
Mr. Schmid of the Committee on Health
and Human Services submitted the following
report which was read.
Board of Aldermen Committee report,
May 16, 2014.
To the President of the Board of
Aldermen:
The Committee on Health and Human
Services to whom was referred the following
Board Bills, report that they have considered
the same and recommend adoption.

Board Bill No. 37
An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Director of the Department of Human
Services, on behalf of the City of St. Louis, to
accept a Grant Award from the Missouri
Department of Corrections in the amount of
$750,000.00 and to expend those funds for

Re-entry Services for Former State Offenders,
as set forth in the Memorandum of
Understanding attached as Exhibit A;
appropriating said funds and authorizing the
Director of the Department of Human
Services, upon approval of the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, to expend such
funds as permitted by the Memorandum of
Understanding – Grant Award; and containing
an Emergency Clause.
Alderman Schmid
Chairman of the Committee
Ms. Young moved to suspend the rules
for the purpose of moving the following Board
Bill to the perfection calendar for perfection:
Board Bill No. 39
Seconded by Ms. Howard.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Arnowitz, Murphy,
Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Kennedy,
Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Ogilvie, Williamson, Krewson, President
Reed. 22
Noes: Tyus, Carter. 2
Present:0

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Roddy moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”. Board
Bills No. 10, 11, 27 and 25.
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
Ms. Young moved that Board Bill No.
39 before the Board for perfection, be
perfected as reported out of Committee with
its recommendation “Do Pass”.
Seconded by Ms. Florida.
Carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Arnowitz, Murphy,
Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy, Davis,
Schmid, Boyd, Vaccaro, Ogilvie, Williamson,
Krewson, President Reed. 20
Noes: Tyus, Carter. 2
Present:French. 1

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR

Mr. Roddy moved for third reading and
final passage of Board Bills No. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
and 9.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Tyus, Flowers, Bosley, Hubbard,
Young, Conway, Ortmann, Arnowitz,
Murphy, Howard, Florida, Baringer, Roddy,
Davis, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Ogilvie, Williamson, Carter, Krewson,
President Reed. 23
Noes:0
Present: 0

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE

Board of Aldermen, Committee Report,
St. Louis, May 16, 2014.

To the President of the Board of
Aldermen

The Committee on Engrossed and
Enrolled Bills to whom was referred the
following Board Bills report that they have
considered the same and they are truly
engrossed.

Board Bill No. 4

An ordinance extending paragraph (G)
of Section Two of Ordinance 63483, approved
on June 2, 1995, as extended by Ordinance
66317, and in lieu thereof a new paragraph is
enacted extending the period of time during
which the Washington Place Special Business
District shall be permitted to collect the tax
within the boundaries of the district therein
established; and containing effectiveness and
emergency clauses.

Board Bill No. 5

An ordinance submitting to the qualified
voters residing in the Washington Place Special
Business District as designated in Ordinance
63483, approved on June 2, 1995, a proposal
to continue the levy of a tax on the real
property located in said district for ten years;
submitting said proposal to the voters of said
district at the General Election on August 5,
2014; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 6
An ordinance extending paragraph (G)
of Section Two of Ordinance 63479, approved
on June 2, 1995, as extended by Ordinance
66318, and in lieu thereof a new paragraph is
enacted extending the period of time during
which the Waterman/Lake Special Business
District shall be permitted to collect the tax
within the boundaries of the district therein
established; and containing effectiveness and
emergency clauses.

Board Bill No. 7
An ordinance submitting to the qualified
voters residing in the Waterman/Lake Special
Business District as designated in Ordinance
63479, approved on June 2, 1995, a proposal
to continue the levy of a tax on the real
property located in said district for ten years;
submitting said proposal to the voters of said
district at the General Election on August 5,
2014; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 8
An ordinance extending paragraph (G)
of Section Two of Ordinance 63481, approved
on June 2, 1995, as extended by Ordinance
66316, and in lieu thereof a new paragraph is
enacted extending the period of time during
which the Westminster/Lake Special Business
District shall be permitted to collect the tax
within the boundaries of the district therein
established; and containing effectiveness and
emergency clauses.

Board Bill No. 9
An ordinance submitting to the qualified
voters residing in the Westminster/Lake
Special Business District as designated in
Ordinance 63481, approved on June 2, 1995,
a proposal to continue the levy of a tax on the
real property located in said district for ten
years; submitting said proposal to the voters
of said district at the General Election on
August 5, 2014; and containing an emergency
clause.
Board Bills Numbered 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9
were read and all other business being
suspended, Mr. Reed, in the presence of the
Board and in open session, affixed his signature
in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 35 through 41 and the Clerk was instructed
to read same.

Resolution No 35
Holy Cross Parish

WHEREAS, Holy Cross Parish was
founded in 1864; and

WHEREAS, because of difficulties,
mainly language, a new parish was formed in
1871, and named Our Lady of Mount Carmel;
and
WHEREAS, both parishes continued
until 1993 when they merged or rejoined into
one new parish called Our Lady of the Holy
Cross Parish; and
WHEREAS, the parish membership
reflects ethnically, racially and culturally
diverse people and is a stable part of the Baden
community; and
WHEREAS, their parish proclaims the
Gospel of Jesus and endeavors to serve the
commandments of the one God. They
constantly attempt to grow spiritually and to
uphold the kingdom of God; and
WHEREAS, they attempt to reach out
to serve their community of Baden by helping
the needy, teaching Christian values and by
welcoming visitors; and
WHEREAS, because they trust in God,
they have the courage to face the challenge of
their neighborhood, city and world; and
WHEREAS, the heritage of their past is
important and they work to remain aware of
the constant goodness of God and people in
the past and present; and
WHEREAS, they are especially proud
that they represent 150 years of Catholic
presence and service in the Baden community
of North St. Louis
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the Holy Cross
Parish and we thank them for their many
contributions to the St. Louis community for
the past 150 years and we further direct the
Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 9th day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2nd Ward

Resolution No. 36
Rosalind Criswell
WHEREAS, we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and honor Rosalind
Criswell on the occasion of her retirement from
the City of St. Louis after 38 years of service;
and

WHEREAS, Roz Criswell began her
employment with the city in February of
1976 as a Clerk I Trainee for the Department
of Personnel, she would soon begin her “climb”
up the ladder; by that summer she was
promoted to Clerk I; and

WHEREAS, it was her outgoing,
bubbly, personality and ability to excite others
that propelled Roz to work with the United
Way, United Negro College Fund, and Arts &
Education in 1991; and

WHEREAS, due to her generous nature
and big heart Roz didn’t stop there. She
created a program to help struggling families
during the holiday season with food to eat,
clothes to wear, and presents for their children
to unwrap; and

WHEREAS, in 1997 her title changed
from Personnel Assistant to Charity Program
Coordinator and she continued to host and
create various events, such as Books Are Fun
in city hall’s rotunda; and

WHEREAS, currently, Rosalind
Criswell works as a Human Resource
Specialist II and maintains that her time with
the Department of Personnel have been some
of the most enjoyable in her life; and

WHEREAS, Roz has been married to
Donnell Criswell for 42 years, also a city
retiree from the St. Louis Water Division; and
their greatest love is for God, each other, their
friends and family at Mt. Zion M.B. Church,
as well as all of God’s people; and

WHEREAS, we have been apprised that
although a party is planned for May 16th,
Rosalind will officially celebrate her last day
as a city employee on May 30, 2014.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOVED by the Board of Aldermen of the
City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to join with friends, family, and
co-workers, as we wish Roz peace and
happiness in her retirement. We further direct
the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy of
this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 16th day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Christine Ingrassia, 6th Ward
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen

Resolution No. 37
Eagle Scout
John Conrad Goedeker
WHEREAS, John Conrad Goedeker has
been a member of Boy Scout Troop 51 since
May 2007; and
WHEREAS, he has earned the ranks of
Tenderfoot, 2nd Class, 1st Class, Star and Life
Scout and was selected for the Order of the
Arrow; and

WHEREAS, John has held leadership
positions in Troop 52 and has completed an
Eagle Scout service project, and an Eagle Board
of Review, thereby earning the rank of Eagle
Scout in the Boy Scouts of America; and

WHEREAS, those who are familiar with
Scouting are aware that the rank of Eagle Scout
is a goal sought by many, but attained by few;
requiring intelligence, perseverance and a
strong sense of service to your community;
and

WHEREAS, he will graduate from
Bishop DuBourg High School in May 2014,
where he is also a member of the Robotics
Teams; and

WHEREAS, John’s eagle Scout Project
was removing a crumbling railroad tie retaining
wall and replacing it with a concrete block
wall for SOKOL Children’s Camp in Imperial,
Missouri.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate John Conrad
Goedeker on the occasion of his rank of Eagle
Scout and we wish him continued success and
achievement and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 16h day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Beth MurphyAlderwoman 13thWard

Resolution No. 38
Pacific Educational Group’s
Fifth Annual Summit for
Courageous Conversation
WHEREAS, the team of dedicated and
talented staff of Pacific Educational Group
has partnered with school districts,
universities and educational organizations
throughout the U.S., Canada and Australia in
fostering the development of greater
awareness, skills and accountability in

educating all students and especially
underserved students of color since 1992; and
WHEREAS, U.S. educational statistics
have shown that racial achievement disparities
in public education have persisted for nearly
a century, and current data indicates that (a)
even low-income White students consistently
outperform their middle and upper income
Black, Brown, Native American/Alaska
Native and Hawaiian Native/Pacific Island
counterparts, and (b) educational achievement
disparities between White students and
students of color have reached unprecedented,
alarmingly high levels; and
WHEREAS, Pacific Educational Group
believes that systemic racism is the most
devastating factor contributing to the
diminished capacity of children of color to
achieve at the highest levels, and contributes
to the fracturing of the communities that
nurture and support them; and
WHEREAS, the staff and affiliates of
Pacific Educational Group strive to prepare
leaders, be they governing board members,
administrators, teachers, students, parents or
community members, to be effective and
courageous advocates for eliminating the racial
predictability of which student groups occupy
the highest and lowest achievement categories;
and
WHEREAS, the Summit for Courageous
Conversation convenes leaders for racial
equity from the U.S. and around the world to
engage, sustain and deepen interracial dialogue
about the impact of race on schooling and to
discover effective strategies for unlocking the
untapped potential of underserved children
of color and their White peers.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Pacific Educational
Group’s Fifth Annual Summit for Courageous
Conversation and we further direct the Clerk
of this Board to spread a copy of this
Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 16th of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard

Resolution No. 39
Christy Connor
WHEREAS, Christy Connor has
established a tradition of excellence in her small,
St. Louis school. She’s put in countless hours
with her middle school students for the

National History Day competition and has
mentored several top-finishing student
projects over her 20 years as a social studies
educator, all while retaining superior
performance in the classroom; and

WHEREAS, National History Day is a
state- and national-level competition in which
students choose historical topics and conduct
extensive primary and secondary research with
the support of their committed teachers; and

WHEREAS, Connor, a 6-8th grade
Social Studies teacher at St. Raphael the
Archangel School in St. Louis, Mo., has a
record for top-honored students at the state
contest (who then go on to compete at the
national level). During her time participating
in National History Day, Connor has helped
students select topics, conduct hours of
research, synthesize their findings, and
present an engaging, finished product; and

WHEREAS, undertaking a National
History Day project is a major time
commitment for both students and their
mentors. Connor volunteers above and
beyond what’s expected of most teachers,
staying after school with her students every
day from October through May and even on
Saturdays to guide them in their projects. She
also gives her time as a judge for other schools
at the state competition where she provides
thoughtful commentary and helps other
students make their work stronger; and

WHEREAS, the most remarkable aspect
of her students’ great success in state and
national competition is that they come from a
school with less than 200 Kindergarten
through eighth-grade students. In such a small
school, Connor has created a culture of
excellence; and

WHEREAS, her impact is not limited
to National History Day. Despite all the time
she puts in after school, Connor still maintains
a high standard of excellence in her regular
social studies classes; and

WHEREAS, Connor’s students build a
sense of pride and accomplishment over their
years with her. With her guidance, students
develop attributes crucial for their future
success, such as critical thinking and problemsolving skills, research and reading skills, oral
and written communication skills, and a sense
of responsibility; and

WHEREAS, after 40 years as an
educator and 20 years of teaching social
studies, Connor is an exemplary woman of
character. St. Raphael the Archangel School
may be small, but nothing about Connor’s time
there has been.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to congratulate Christy Connor
on her many accomplishments and receiving
the Missouri Humanities Excellence in
Education Award and receiving and we wish
her continued success and achievement and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16th Ward

Resolution No. 40
Douglas Dick
WHEREAS, Douglas Dick is being
honored and recognized for his commitments
to the Lindenwood Park Neighborhood and
for his many contributions to the Lindenwood
Park Neighborhood Association and to the
Lindenwood Park itself; and
WHEREAS, he has devoted himself to
the Lindenwood Park Neighborhood
Association by serving as president for twenty
years where he worked selflessly to contribute
his time, expertise and resources for the
betterment of the neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, Doug has also served as a
member of the Linden Heights Housing
Corporation, in order to improve housing stock
in the neighborhood; and
WHEREAS, Lindenwood Park is a
treasured resource in the City of St. Louis and
Doug has devoted himself to continually
improve the park through coordinating and
participating in park clean-ups for many years
as well as partnering with the City to identify
and implement park enhancements; and

WHEREAS, Doug is an exceptional
member of this community and we greatly
appreciate his commitment to the Lindenwood
Park Neighborhood and to the entire City of
St. Louis.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize Douglas Dick and
we further direct the Clerk of this Board to
spread a copy of this Resolution across the
minutes of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honoree at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard

Resolution No. 41
Monsignor Robert Joseph Gettinger
WHEREAS, we have been apprised
Monsignor Robert Joseph Gettinger recently
celebrated his 50th Anniversary of the
Ordination to the Priesthood; and
WHEREAS, Monsignor Ryan, baptized
the infant Robert Joseph, freeing his soul from
original sin and giving him rebirth through
water and the Holy Spirit; and
WHEREAS, young Robert received his
First Holy Communion when he received his
first taste of the life-giving Body and Blood
of Our Lord and Savior; and
WHEREAS, Robert was Confirmed,
which strengthened, signed, and sealed him as
a soldier of Christ; and
WHEREAS, Cardinal Ritter ordained
Seminarian Robert to become part of the
chosen race, the royal priesthood, a priest
forever; and
WHEREAS, his loving, caring, nurturing
parents, Edgar and Mary Rose were his first
teachers and guides along the path of faith;
and
WHEREAS, his only brother, Jack was
his friend, guide, and role model through his
growing up years; and
WHEREAS, for Father Bob’s many
years of priestly service to those whom he
has prayed for, baptized, confirmed, married,
anointed, reconciled, and commended to God
at the six parishes he has served: St. Charles
Borromeo, St. Sebastian, Most Holy Name,
St. Bridget, Most Blessed Sacrament and St.
Augustine; and
WHEREAS, Father Bob has invited in,
fed, clothed, cared for, visited, helped to
educate, and comforted many people in his
charitable outreach to the least of our brothers
and sisters; and
WHEREAS, for the past 21 years he
has served as “one and only” pastor, padre,
teacher, and friend at St. Augustine Parish and
for many more years to come; and
WHEREAS, we hope for Father Bob’s
continued health and well-being that he remain
strong in spirit, mind, and body, enjoy life
and have peace of mind and continue to do the
Lord’s work.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize and congratulate
Monsignor Robert Joseph Gettinger and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread
a copy of this Resolution across the minutes
of these proceedings and to prepare a
commemorative copy to the end that it may
be presented to our honorees at a time and
place deemed appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 16th day of May, 2014 by:
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard

Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 35 through 41 stood
considered.

President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 35 through 41 are adopted, at this meeting
of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN

Mr. Roddy moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Mr. Moore, Ms. Ingrassia, Mr.
Vollmer, Mr. Villa and Mr. Cohn.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Roddy moved to adjourn under rules
to return Thursday, May 22, 2014.
Seconded by Mr. Boyd.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - May 20, 2014
The Board met at 1:45 p.m.
Present: Directors Skouby, Waelterman,
Bess, Siedhoff, Rice-Walker, Gray and
President Bradley.
Absent: None.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May
13, 2014 were unanimously approved.
Communications, reports, recommendations and documents were submitted by
Board Members and action thereon taken as
follows:

PRESIDENT
Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and the Board set
date of June 24, 2014 for opening bids for
work and Secretary instructed to insert proper
advertisement therefore: Letting No. 8551 –
Forest Park – Upper Muny Parking Lot,
Preliminary approval given and 10 days
granted in which to sign same:
Letting No. 8536 – Watson/Lindenwood
Intersection Improvement, Project No.
R2013-30-15, Raineri Construction, 1300
Hampton, Suite 200, St. Louis, MO 63139,
$47,595.25
Letting No. 8545 – East Climate Boiler
Control Upgrade, Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport, ORF Construction,
4317 Bridgeton Industrial, Bridgeton, MO
63044, Amount: $583,853.12
Letting No. 8546 – Fairground Park
Comfort Station ADA Upgrades at Playground
and Tennis Court, Project No. R2014-82-036,
Kozeny-Wagner Inc., 951 West Outer Road,
Arnold, MO 63010, Amount: $264,504.00
The Board declared as emergency work
for Heger Court – Refurbish World’s Fair
Lanterns ordered approved.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND STREETS
Application No. 120315, Union Electric
Company d/b/a Ameren Missouri, install new
concrete encased duct-bank on Vandeventer
near alley between Duncan and Forest Park,
also on Duncan east of Vandeventer ordered
approved, subject to certain conditions.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 120422, Glenn
J. Roberts, to consolidate land at 4914-18
Claxton in C.B. 5558, 120423, David
Schindler, for a lot split at 6540 Nashville in
C.B. 4894.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Affidavit of Northside Regeneration
LLC, Petition No. 6804 to vacate the
southernmost 159.355’ +/- 3.755’ of the 15
foot wide north/south alley in C.B. 576 as
bounded by Cass, 10th, O’Fallon and Tucker/
13th and the excess portion of 13th/Tucker
abutting C.B. 576 approved.
Manufacturer’s Railway Company, to
exercise third (5) five year option to extend
the term of their lease for 291,000 square feet
to City property between Dorcas and St.
George on the unimproved wharf ordered
approved.
3 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 120395, Sara
Manchester LLC d/b/a Gallery 400, to
encroach with sidewalk café (10 tables and 40
chairs) serving liquor at 400 Washington,
120378, Baida Restaurant, to encroach with
sidewalk café (6 tables and 16 chairs) with
liquor at 3191 So. Grand and, 120288, Pedal
the Cause, to encroach with one banner on the
rail at Kingshighway and Forest Park Parkway
from September 3, 2014 to October 1, 2014
and,

PUBLIC SAFETY
8 Special Events permits ordered
approved subject to certain conditions as
follows: 120434, MicroFest Lift for Life,
declare a festival zone May 2-3, 2014 at
Upper Muny parking Lot, Forest Park (event
has already taken place) all other permits were
issued, 120435, St. Louis African Arts Festival,
declare a festival zone 24-26, 2014 in Forest
Park at the World’s Fair Pavilion, 120436,
Thurman Loopfest, to declare a festival zone
May 30, 2014 at Shenandoah and Thurman,
120437, Urcorked Wine and Jazz Festival,
declare a festival zone at Chestnut from
Tucker to 14th, 13th from Market to Pine June
6-7, 2014., 120438, Street Soccer Tournament,
to declare a festival zone June 7, 2014 at
Morganford between Hartford and
Connecticut, 120439, St. Stephen’s Parish
Picnic, to declare a festival zone June 11, 2014
at Wilmington from Livingston to Coronado,
Livingston from alley before Bowen and alley
before Dover. 120440, Juneteeth Celebration,
declare a festival zone June 13, 2014 at
Fountain Park.

8 Conditional Use Permits ordered
approved with conditions as recommended
by the Hearing Officer, per Board Order No.
766.

8 approved with conditions: 120426,
4901 No. Union, retail sales, telephones, new
phones, accessories, NE corner, 120427, 8345
No. Broadway, to do interior and exterior
alterations (per plans) for store, 120428, 4128
Juniata, record label business (office use only)
home occupancy wavier, 120429, 4711
Goodfellow, home health care (office use
only) home occupancy wavier, 120430, 313745 So. Grand, fitness instructor – incidental
business wavier, 120431, 4139 Martin Luther
King, sitdown, carryout coffee shop, no
liquor, no cooking, 120432, 5715 Gravois,
retail and resale cell phone business with
accessories and electronic repair, 120433, 4052
So. Broadway, lawn mower repair service.
Agenda Items for May 20, 2014 ordered
approved.

The Board Adjourned to meet Tuesday,
May 27, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thompson
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri time on June 24, 2014
which time they will be publicly opened and
read, viz:
JOB TITLE: FOREST PARK - UPPER
MUNY PARKING LOT
LETTING NUMBER: 8551
DEPOSIT:

$ 81,885.00

Drawings and Specifications may be
examined on the Board of Public Service
website http://www.stl-bps.org/planroom.
aspx (BPS On Line Plan Room) and may be
purchased directly through the BPS website
from INDOX Services at cost plus shipping.

Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board

of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.
The City of St. Louis will affirmatively
insure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, minority
business enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit bids in response to
this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The M/
WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.
The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.

All bidders must regard Federal
Executive Order 11246, “Notice of
Requirement for Affirmative Action to
Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity”,
the “Equal Opportunity Clause” and the
“Standard Federal Equal Employment
Specifications” set forth within and referenced
at www.stl-bps.org (Announcements).
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
May 27, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thompson
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis
SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned at
the Office of the Board of Public Service,
Room 208, City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
June 3, 2014 St. Louis, Missouri time, at
which time they will be publicly opened and
read, viz:
LETTING NO. 8550
JOB TITLE: Terminal 2 Roof Replacement
Phase 1 and 2 at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport
BID DEPOSIT: $20,225.00
Drawings and Specifications may
be examined on the Board of Public
Service website http://www.stl-bps.
org/planroom.aspx (BPS On Line Plan Room)
and may be purchased directly though the BPS
website from INDOX Services at cost plus
shipping if required. Purchased sets become
the property of the prospective bidder and
no refunds will be made.
Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208, City Hall. There will be a
Mandatory Pre-bid meeting on May 14, 2014
, at 1:30 PM at 11495 Navaid Rd., Bridgeton,
MO 63044, on the Fourth Floor in the Training
Room.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show

in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications
and plans.

In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to be basic items, the latter shall
prevail.

Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
Payable to the order of the City Treasurer,
for the amount of Bid Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.

All work under this contract will be paid
for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). The City will make final
payment, including all retained percentages,
within ten (10) days after completion of all
work and final acceptance.

The City of St. Louis hereby notifies all
bidders that it will affirmatively insure that in
any contract entered into pursuant to this
advertisement, minority business enterprises

will be afforded full opportunity to submit
bids in response to this invitation and will not
be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color or national origin in consideration for an
award. The M/WBE goals for this project
are 25% and 5%, respectively.

The contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.

All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections 290.210 to 290.340 inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.

All bidders must regard Federal
Executive Order 111246, “Notice of
Requirement for Affirmative Action to Ensure
Equal Employment Opportunity”, the “Equal
Opportunity Clause” and the “Standard
Federal Equal Employment Specifications” set
for within and referenced at www.stl-bps.org
(Announcements).

The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By order of the Board of Public Service,
MAY 6, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thompson
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, June 4, 2014 in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL #10408 – Appeal filed by Air
Conditioning Contractors of America, from
the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of an occupancy
permit authorizing the Appellant to operate a
trade association office at 2323 Sublette (1S).
WARD 10 #AO512624-14 ZONE: “A” –
Single Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #10409 - Appeal filed by D/B/
A Straub’s Coffee Shop, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a sit
down and carry out coffee shop (no cooking
or liquor) at 3555 California. WARD 20
#AO511573-14 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District

APPEAL #10410 – Appeal filed by Tick
Tock Tavern, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a full drink tavern with front patio
(no cooking) at 3459 Magnolia, 1st floor.
WARD 6 #AO512838-14 ZONE: “B” – Two
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10411 – Appeal filed by Big
Johnson’s, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate an auto repair business (no painting
or bodywork) at 5401 Chippewa. WARD 23
#AO513108-14 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District

APPEAL #10412– Appeal filed by
CSTK, from the determination of the Building
Commissioner in the denial of a building
permit authorizing the Appellant to construct
a commercial building, per plans, for a vehicle
(truck) repair business and warehouse at 420
Carrie. WARD 2 #AB513548-14 ZONE: “K”
– Unrestricted District

APPEAL #10387– Appeal filed by Link
Auction Galleries, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate an auction house at 5000
Washington Place ( 1st floor southeast & west
end, basement southwest end, common areas
and mezzanine). (Cont) WARD 28
#AO512435-14 ZONE: “B” – Two Family
Dwelling District
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A public hearing will be held by the
Board of Adjustment at 1:30 p.m. on
Wednesday,June 11, 2014 in Room 208 City
Hall to consider the following:
APPEAL #10413 – Appeal filed by DA
Warehouse, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate an auto repair business (no outside
storage, bodywork or painting) at 2727
Watson. WARD 24 #AO513594-14 ZONE:
“F” – Neighborhood Commercial District
APPEAL #10414 – Appeal filed by
Hammond Building LLC, from the
determination of the Board of Public Service
in the denial of a request to amend previously
issued conditional use permit to allow the
Appellant to construct a commercial building,
per plans, for a recycle/methane business at
110-114 Mullanphy. WARD 5 #AB51222714/BPS120327 ZONE: “K” – Unrestricted
District
APPEAL #10115 – Appeal file by D/B/
A Anything Automotive, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the revocation of a use variance and
occupancy permit, with conditions,
authorizing the Appellant to operate a used
auto sales, car wash and auto repair (no body
work or painting) at 5068 Chippewa.
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 14 #AO50309912 ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood
Commercial District
APPEAL #8988 – Appeal file by
Meramec Market, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the revocation
of a conditional use permit and occupancy
permit, with conditions, authorizing the
Appellant to operate a grocery store and deli

with hot and cold food at 2821 Meramec.
(Revocation Hearing) WARD 20 #BPS113594
ZONE: “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District #AO415395-07
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.

By authority of the Board of
Adjustment.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday June 5, 2014 on the following
conditional uses:

2804 Hereford - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Cleco, LLC (Janitorial Supply
Distributor/ Office Use Only) “B” Multiple
Family Dwelling District te Ward 8

6429 Idaho - Home Occupancy WaiverJam On Cleaning Services (Janitorial/Office
Use Only) “A” Single Family Dwelling
District te Ward 11

4413 Garfield - Home Occupancy
Waiver-S I D –NI (Construction/Office Use
Only) “C” Multiple Family Dwelling District
ah Ward 4

3446 Tennessee - Home Occpuancy
Waiver-B. King Roofing & Exteriors (Exterior/
Office Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling
District bl Ward 9

1223-27 Tamm - AO-513626-14-Tamm
Avenue Grill (Full Drink Bar/Restaurant/Front
Patio/Rear Patio/Sidewalk Seating) “F”Neighborhood Commercial District ah Ward
24

7619 S Broadwday - AO-513247-14Boundless Love Ministry (Resale Shop/Used
Clothing/Furniture/Accessories) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District ah Ward
11

4476 Chouteau - AO-513631-14Amy’s Corner Bakeshop (Bakery/Retail
Sales/Front Sidewalk Seating/Expand) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District ah Ward
17

PUBLIC NOTICE

A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday June 12, 2014 on the following
conditional uses:

1808 Hickory - Home Occupancy
Waiver-T. B. Toys (Internet Sales of Toys/
Office Use Only)”B” Two Family Dwelling
District. ah Ward 6
3101 Osceola - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Garcia’s Construction (Construction/
Office Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling
District. ah Ward 20
3021 Union - Home Occupancy WaiverDC Home Maintenance (General Contractor/
Office Use Only) F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. te Ward 1
8635 N Broadway - AO-512953-14M & E Market (Convenience Store/No
Cooking/No Liquor) “F”-Neighborhood
Commercial District. ah Ward 2
2649 Hampton - AO-513434-14No Leash Needed -The Hill, LLC (Dog Kennel/
Boarding/Dog Daycare) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. ah Ward 24
4233 Chouteau - AO-513343-14Bellow Salvage & Rehabbing Co.
(Construction Office/Inside Storage/
Construction Tools) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. ah Ward 17
1514 Hodiamont -AO-513566-14Big Will’s Combo’s & More (Carry out
Restaurant/No Liquor/No Outside Seating)
“F” Neighborhood Commercial District. ah
Ward 22
4300 S Kingshighway - AB-51349914-Maintenance Free Construction (Construct
Commercial Building per plans for Gas
Station/ Convenience Store) “F”
Neighborhood Commercial District. bl Ward
14

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY
For Woodwaste &
Leaf/Compost Processing
The Department of Parks, Recreation &
Forestry is looking for interested companies
to submit proposals to manage the overall
program of intake, processing and disposal
forall wood waste (logs, limbs, brush, wood
chips) and leaves generated by the City of St.
Louis Forestry Division and other City
agencies within the normal course of business
annually.

Bid documents may be obtained at the
Division of Forestry, 1415 N. 13th Street, St.
Louis, MO 63106 or downloaded from the
City’s website at http://stlouis-mo.gov/
departments/parks.
Sealed Bids will be received until 5:00
P.M., St. Louis, MO time, June 16, 2014, at
the Forestry Division.
The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Bidders shall
comply with Mayor’s Executive Order #28,
as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this concession bid in part or in its
entirety.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
PARKS, RECREATION & FORESTRY
For Approved Caterers for
Boathouse in Lafayette Park

The Department of Parks, Recreation &
Forestry is looking for interested caterers to
provide catering services at the recently
renovated Boathouse in Lafayette Park.
Requests For Proposals may be obtained
from the Department of Parks, Recreation
Administration Office at 5600 Clayton in
Forest Park, St. Louis, MO 63110 or the
City’s website at http://stlouis-mo.gov/
departments/parks.
Sealed Bids will be received until 5:00
P.M., St. Louis, MO time, June 24, 2014, at
the Forestry Division. A pre-proposal
meeting and tour will be held on Tuesday,
June 3, 2014 at 11:00 A.M.
The City of St. Louis is an Equal
Opportunity Employer, and Bidders shall
comply with Mayor’s Executive Order #28,
as amended.
The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses or to
cancel this concession bid in part or in its
entirety.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS (RFP)
Website Development and
Marketing Materials

Sponsor:
Department of Health, Communicable
Disease Bureau
Procurement Type:
Request for Proposals and/or Qualifications
Starting Date:
May 19, 2014
Closing Date:
June 6, 2014
Closing Time:
4:00 PM
Pre-Application Meeting:
Friday, May 23, 2014
Time:
2:00 PM – 3:30 PM
Location:
City of St. Louis, Department of Health
1520 Market Street, Room 4051
Large Conference Room
St. Louis, MO 63103

Summary
The City of St. Louis, Department of Health
(DOH), Communicable Disease – Planning
Council Support is requesting proposals from
service providers to provide website
development and marketing materials. The
funding source is Health Resources and
Services Administration.

Interested parties are encouraged to respond
to the solicitation for proposal beginning
Monday, May 19, 2014. An RFP packet may
be obtained from Renee November, Planning
Council Support, DOH, 1520 Market Avenue,
Room 4027, by either calling 314-657-1401
or via email NovemberM@stlouis-mo.gov.
Interested parties may also download the RFP
from the City of St. Louis website at http://
w w w. s t l o u i s - m o . g o v / g o v e r n m e n t /
procurement.cfm. If interested parties have
downloaded the proposal from the website,
they must register with Renee November; in
order to be notified of any changes or
amendments to the RFPs. The deadline for
submitting proposals is 4:00 p.m., Friday,
June 6, 2014 at the address referenced
above.

Questions, call Renee November, Planning
Council Support, at (314) 657-1401 or via
email at NovemberM@stlouis-mo.gov.

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP –EMG MGT
MOVE OF VIDEO CONFERENCE
TABLE AND EQUIPMENT
Sealed bids of the above will be received at
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Purchasing, 1200
Clark Avenue, Room 605, St. Louis, Missouri
63103, until 11:00 a.m. local time, Friday,
May 30, 2014, they will be opened publicly
and announced.
Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of Purchasing by
prospective bidders upon request in person
or by telephone during regular business hours.
A request may be made by email at
clshepard@slmpd.org or bnturner@
slmpd.org.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department shall be entitled to recover any
damages resulting from termination.
The Metropolitan Police Department
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Department
also reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Department will
consider the location of the business, minority
interest in the business, prior performance and
the bid submitted in relation to the needs of
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department.
Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration

with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.
Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5996 or can be accessed at http://
www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.
Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
BRAD TURNER
BUYER
ST. LOUIS METROPOLITAN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
BNTURNER@SLMPD.ORG

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL
Metropolitan Police Department
City of St. Louis, Missouri
RFP – LAB/ID
MOVE OF MOBILE
SHELVING SYSTEM
Sealed bids of the above will be received at
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department, Office of the Purchasing, 1200
Clark Avenue, Room 605, St. Louis, Missouri
63103, until 11:00 a.m. local time, Friday,
May 30, 2014, they will be opened publicly
and announced.
Request for Proposal documents may
be obtained from the Office of Purchasing by
prospective bidders upon request in person
or by telephone during regular business hours.
A request may be made by email at
clshepard@slmpd.org or bnturner@
slmpd.org.
Contractor shall not discriminate in
matters of employment, upgrading, transfer,
rates of pay selection or otherwise, against
any employee or applicant for employment
because of race, creed, color, sex or national
origin. Noncompliance shall be sufficient
cause to reject any bid or terminate the
contract, and the St. Louis Metropolitan Police

Department shall be entitled to recover any
damages resulting from termination.

The Metropolitan Police Department
reserves the right to waive any formalities and
to reject any and all bids. The Department
also reserves the right to consider criteria other
than the low bid in the award of a contract.
Among other factors, the Department will
consider the location of the business, minority
interest in the business, prior performance and
the bid submitted in relation to the needs of
the St. Louis Metropolitan Police
Department.

Bidders are hereby advised that the St.
Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597 and
associated Regulations could apply to the
service for which bids are being sought herein.
This Ordinance requires that, unless specific
exemptions apply, all individuals who perform
work pursuant to a contract executed between
the successful bidder and the City must be
paid a minimum of the applicable Living Wage
rates and if rates are adjusted during the term
of the contract pursuant to the Ordinance,
applicable rates after such adjustment is made.
Each bidder must submit the “Living Wage
Acknowledgment and Acceptance Declaration
with the bid. Failure to submit this Declaration
with the bid will result in rejection of the bid.
A successful bidder’s failure to comply with
the contract provisions related to the Living
Wage Ordinance may result in termination of
the contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set for in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from Brad Turner,
at 314-444-5996 or can be accessed at http://
www.stlouiscity.com/livingwage.

Bidders are also advised that the State
of Missouri requires workers on all public
works projects to be paid prevailing wages.
The contractor will forfeit a penalty to the
contracting public body of $100 per day (or
portion of a day) if a worker is paid less than
the prevailing rate for any work done under
the contract by the contractor or by any
subcontractor (Section 290.250, RSMo.).
BRAD TURNER
BUYER
ST. LOUIS METROPOLITAN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
BNTURNER@SLMPD.ORG

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
LAMBERT - ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
Solicitation For Bids (SFB) for
Food Truck Concession
Sealed Bids Wanted
Bidding documents may be obtained at
Lambert St. Louis International Airport® Airport Properties Division, Monday
through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8184. This SFB
may also be obtained by visiting our website
at www.flystl.com (Click on “Business”).
Robert Salarano
Airport Properties Division Manager

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is MAY 30, 2014.
PROGRAM WORKER I
(St. Louis Area Agency on Aging – SLAAA)
(Per Performance)
$11.20 (Hourly Salary)
O.C. 2151

________________________________________________________________________
The last date for filing an application for
the following examination is JUNE 6, 2014.
BUILDING INSPECTOR I
$36,478 to $59,072
Prom./O.C. 2152
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SPECIALIST I
$36,400 to $55,224 (Annual Salary Range)
Prom./O.C. 2150
PAYROLL SPECIALIST II
$30,394 to $45,968 (Annual Salary Range)
Prom./O.C. 2083
POLICE DISPATCHER I (TRAINEE)
$995.00 (Bi-Weekly Rate of Pay)
Prom./O.C. 2063

________________________________________________________________________

Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.
Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114
Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov and link to Online Jobs.
Richard R. Frank,
Director
May 21, 2014

ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN

NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS
LIVING WAGE RATES
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2014
In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
(“Ordinance”) and the Regulations associated
therewith, the City Compliance Official for
the City of St. Louis has determined that the
following living wage rates are now in effect
for employees of covered contracts:
1)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are provided to the
employee, the living wage rate is
$12.37 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three); and

2)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are not provided to
the employee, the living wage rate is
$16.18 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three, plus fringe benefit
rates as defined in the Ordinance).

3)

Wages required under Chapter 6.20
of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis: $3.81 per hour.

These rates are based upon federal poverty
level income guidelines as defined in the
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of
April 1, 2014. These rates will be further
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty
level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services or
pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis.

The Ordinance applies to employers who are
covered by the Ordinance as defined in the
Ordinance, where the contract or grant is
entered into or renewed after the effective date
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or
obtained from:
City Compliance Official
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®
Certification and Compliance Office
P.O. Box 10212
St. Louis, Mo 63145
(314) 426-8111
Dated: March 11, 2014

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
MAY 27, 2014 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

NO ADVERTISED
BIDS THIS WEEK
Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to: http://
stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm then,
search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or
e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com.
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

Local Preference
ORDINANCE #69431
Board Bill No. 295
Committee Substitute As Amended
An Ordinance repealing Section One,
part 86.040 of Ordinance 56716, pertaining
to the opening of bids, codified as Section
5.58.040 of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis, and enacting a new provision on the
same subject matter which allows a local bidder
to match the lowest bid when the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder; enacting a new
provision on the same subject matter;
containing severability clause.
WHEREAS, local businesses which seek
to enter into contracts with the City of St.
Louis are at a competitive disadvantage with
businesses from other areas because of the
higher administrative costs of doing business
in the City;
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis
desires to encourage businesses to remain in
the City and to relocate to the City;
WHEREAS, by enacting a local
preference law that allows a local firm to match
the lowest bid when its bid is within 2%
percent of the lowest bid, the City hopes to
encourage and stimulate local business.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE. Section One, part
86.040, Ordinance 56716 is hereby repealed.
SECTION TWO. Enacted in lieu
thereof is the following new section.
5.58.040 - Opening of bids.
A. Proposals shall be opened at the time
and place fixed by the advertisement, in the
presence of such bidders as desire to be
present, and shall be open to the inspection
of bidders.
B. The bids shall not be materially
modified or amended as to price, specification
or otherwise, nor substitutions placed thereon,
after opening except when the lowest bid is
from a non-local bidder. When the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder, any local bidder
within two percent of the lowest bid may
match the lowest bid. If a local bidder matches
the lowest bid, then the Supply Commissioner

may select the bid from the local bidder. If
more than one local bidder is within two
percent of the lowest bid, then only the lowest
local bidder may match the bid. In all other
circumstances, modification, supplementation
or amendment shall cause rejection of the bid.
For purposes of this chapter, local bidder
means a bidder whose principal place of
business is within the City of St. Louis, has
had a valid business license for at least one
year, and is current in payment of local taxes.
Principal place of business shall be defined as
the business’s physical office, plant, or site
where a majority (51%) of the full-time
employees, chief officer, and managers of the
business regularly work and conduct business,
or where the plant or office and equipment
required for the furnishing of the goods or
performance of the services provided to the
City, as required by the contract, are physically
located in the City of St. Louis for at least one
taxable year immediately prior to the date of
the bid.

C. Bids may be for one or more or all the
articles advertised for, but there shall be a
specific bid on each article. The award may be
made to the lowest bidder for any article, or
to the lowest bidder for the entire requisition
or any part thereof, but the Board of
Standardization may reject any or all bids or
any part of any bid.
SECTION THREE. Severability.

The provisions of this section are
severable. If any provision of this ordinance
is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions of the ordinance which
can be given effect without the invalid
provision.
Approved: April 29, 2013

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved
Carol L. Shepard, CPA
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

