The

City Journal

(USPS: 114-540)
Published Weekly
Under Authority of
City Ordinance No. 30050
by City of St. Louis
Parrie L. May, Register
1206 Market Street
Room 118 City Hall
St. Louis, Missouri 63103

Yearly Subscription . . . . $30.00
IN ADVANCE
Copies for sale and distribution at
Room 118 City Hall
Periodicals postage paid at
St. Louis, Missouri
Postmaster: send address
changes to City Journal, Register's
Office. 1206 Market Street, Room
118, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103.

JOURNAL
OF THE

Board of
Aldermen
OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS

REGULAR
SESSION
2014-2015
PRELIMINARY
The following is a preliminary
draft of the minutes of the
meeting of
Friday, November 14, 2014.
These minutes are
unofficial and subject to
Aldermanic approval.

Chambers November 14, 2014.

The roll was called and the following
Aldermen answered to their names: Flowers,
Bosley, Moore, Hubbard, Ingrassia, Young,
Conway, Ortmann, Vollmer, Villa, Arnowitz,
Murphy, Howard, Green, Baringer, Roddy,
Kennedy, Schmid, French, Boyd, Vaccaro,
Ogilvie, Cohn, Williamson, Carter, Krewson
and President Reed. 27

“Almighty God, source of all authority,
we humbly ask guidance in our deliberations
and wisdom in our conclusions. Amen.”

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANY
SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY
None.

INTRODUCTION OF
HONORED GUESTS
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
OF PREVIOUS MEETING
Mr. Roddy moved to approve the
minutes for October 31, 2014.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

REPORT OF CITY OFFICIALS
Report of the Clerk
of the Board of Aldermen

I wish to report that on the 14th day of
November, 2014, I delivered to the Office of
the Mayor of the City of St. Louis the
following board bills that were truly agreed to

and finally adopted.

Board Bill No. 140
An ordinance recommended by the Port
Authority Commission of the City of St.
Louis authorizing and directing the Mayor and
the Comptroller to enter into a lease agreement
between the City of St. Louis and ACL
Transportation Services LLC for certain land
and mooring privileges on the Unimproved
Wharf for a period of ten (10) years
commencing on the date of execution with three
(3) five-year (5-year) mutual options, in
substantially the form as Exhibit 1 and
Appendix A attached hereto and incorporated
by reference herein as Exhibit 1 and Appendix
A.

Board Bill No. 142
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance pertaining to the
establishment of an Poet Laureate position
for the City of St. Louis, creating a Poet
Laureate Task Force and an effective date.

Board Bill No. 143
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing an
Eighth Supplemental Appropriation in the
total amount of Five Hundred Nineteen
Thousand Three Hundred Dollars ($519,300)
from the Airport Development Fund
established under authority of Ordinance
59286, Section 13, approved October 26,
1984, into the Airport Schedule F CIP Project
Ordinance 67357, approved December 19,
2006, as amended by Ordinance 68650
approved June 2, 2010 and Ordinance 68852
approved February 14, 2011, for the payment
of costs for work and services authorized
therein; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 144
An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, establishing and
authorizing a public works and improvement
program (the “Emergency Building &
Environs Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (the “Airport”),
consisting of capital improvement projects for
the emergency replacement and restoration of
certain Airport equipment, structures,
buildings, and environs and other associated
Airport improvements damaged by fire line
breaks or ruptures and the emergency
replacement of an underground fire main at
the Airport, more fully described in Exhibit A
entitled “Emergency CIP Project List”, which
is attached hereto and incorporated herein,

such authorization including, without
limitation, engineering, planning and designing
services, programming services, technical
advice and assistance, inspection services,
surveying and mapping services, appraisal
services, legal services and related costs,
CADD services, the relocation, removal, or
disposal of damaged property or obstructions,
the relocation or removal of utilities and
equipment, and related work, grading and
landscaping costs and related work, software
services or work, security services, relocation
costs, transportation costs, remediation and
mitigation costs and related work, the
demolition of improvements, the costs for the
renovation, refurbishment of Airport
improvements including fixtures and
equipment, architectural, engineering and
related consultant and management expense
pertaining to the planning, design, consulting,
installing mock-ups, the preparation and
production of contract documents,
solicitations, bills of sale, or other agreements
or documents, or the advertising and taking of
bids, architect and design services, costs for
structural and maintenance studies, estimating
and cost benefit consulting services, general
engineering services, consulting services and
other technical advice and assistance,
construction management, construction,
installation, renovation, rehabilitation,
reconfiguration, improvement, and inspection
work or cost, the equipping and furnishing of
Airport property including, without
limitation, supplies, materials, parts and
equipment, and other necessary and related
work or services for the construction,
installation, replacement, renovation,
refurbishment,
implementation,
administration, management or monitoring of
the Emergency Building & Environs Projects
at a total estimated cost of Nine Hundred
Seventy One Thousand Nine Hundred
Seventy Eight Dollars ($971,978); authorizing
an initial appropriation in the total amount of
Nine Hundred Seventy One Thousand Nine
Hundred Seventy Eight Dollars ($971,978)
from the Airport Development Fund to be
expended for the payment of costs for
emergency work and services authorized
herein; authorizing and directing the Mayor
and the Comptroller of the City of St. Louis
(“City”) to enter into and execute on behalf of
the City easement agreements granting such
easements or right-of-ways as are necessary
to the administration or implementation of
the Emergency Building & Environs Projects;
authorizing and directing the Director of
Airports with the approval of the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment to let contracts
providing for mapping, appraisal, and escrow
services, title work, ground maintenance,

security services, legal services, and other
related services for the implementation and
administration of the Emergency Building &
Environs Projects; authorizing and directing
the Board of Public Service with the advice,
consent, and approval of the Director of
Airports to let contracts for all other approved
work or services, purchase materials, supplies,
and equipment, employ labor, pay salaries,
wages, fees, retain consultants and otherwise
provide for the work or services authorized
herein; providing that any contract let
hereunder, will be subject to the City’s Charter
and applicable City ordinances and Missouri
State laws or regulations applicable thereto;
authorizing and directing the Comptroller of
the City to draw warrants from time to time
on the Treasurer of the City for payment of
expenses authorized herein upon submission
of properly certified vouchers in conformance
with procedures established by the
Comptroller and authorizing, as necessary and
appropriate, the Comptroller, Treasurer, City
Counselor, and other appropriate officers,
agents and employees of the City to make
such applications or certifications and provide
such data to the appropriate parties, and to
take whatever action necessary in order to
provide for the payment or reimbursement of
eligible costs authorized herein; authorizing
and directing the Director of Airports to make
such applications and provide such data and
to take whatever action necessary to seek
funds under the Airport Improvement
Program, the Passenger Facility Charge
Program or other federal, state, or local
programs for projects herein authorized;
directing that all contracts let under authority
of this Ordinance be in compliance with all
applicable minority and women or
disadvantaged business enterprise
requirements and in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, court decisions and
executive orders relating to equal employment
opportunity; and containing a severability and
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 145

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission and the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing a supplemental appropriation and
set apart in the total amount of One Million
Seventy Eight Thousand Twenty Two Dollars
($1,078,022) from the “Airport Development
Fund (established under Ordinance 59286
approved October 26, 1984) to the “Annual
Budget” (established under authority of
Ordinance No. 69736 approved June 27, 2014
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014 and
ending June 30, 2015), for current expenses

of the government as detailed in EXHIBIT
“1”, which is attached hereto and incorporated
herein; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 146
An ordinance recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Comptroller and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment, making certain findings with
respect to the transfer of up to Two Million
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,050,000) of excess
moneys that The City of St. Louis (the
“City”), the owner and operator of LambertSt. Louis International Airport® (the
“Airport”), intends to transfer from the Debt
Service Stabilization Fund (the “DSSF”) to
the Airport Development Fund (the “Airport
Development Fund”) in accordance with
Section 516.B of the Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport Indenture of Trust
between the City, as Grantor, and UMB Bank,
N.A., as Trustee, dated as of October 15, 1984,
as amended and restated as of July 1, 2009, as
amended and supplemented (the “Indenture”);
authorizing a transfer in an amount not to
exceed Two Million Fifty Thousand Dollars
($2,050,000) from the DSSF into the Airport
Development Fund during the fiscal year
beginning July 1, 2014, for the purpose of
making funds available to make certain
emergency replacements and repairs to Airport
buildings, terminals, structures, equipment,
and environs and other associated Airport
improvements damaged by fire line and water
line breaks or ruptures and the emergency
replacement and repair of an underground fire
main at the Airport, more fully described in
EXHIBIT A entitled “Project List of
Emergency Repair & Replacement Projects”
that is incorporated herein; containing a
severability clause; and containing an
emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 147
An Ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Airport Commission, the
Board of Public Service, and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment, establishing and
authorizing a public works and improvement
program (the “Airfield, Building & Environs
Projects”) at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport® (the “Airport”), consisting of
capital improvement projects to and for the
terminal complexes, concourses, parking
facilities, taxiways, runways, aprons, ramps,
and associated Airport buildings, structures,
and facilities, roadways, driveways and
environs, and other associated Airport
improvements as more fully described in the
attached EXHIBIT A, entitled “FISCAL
YEAR 2015 PROJECT/EQUIPMENT
LIST” that is incorporated herein, such

authorization including, without limitation,
engineering planning and designing services,
programming services, technical advice and
assistance, inspection services, surveying and
mapping services, appraisal services, legal
services and related costs, CADD services,
the removal or relocation of structures,
obstructions, utilities, equipment, and related
work, grading and landscaping costs and
related work, software or hardware work or
services, security services, relocation costs,
transportation costs, remediation costs and
related work, the demolition of improvements,
the costs for the repair, renovation, or
relocation of Airport improvements including
fixtures and equipment, architectural,
engineering and related consultant and
management expense pertaining to the
planning, design, consulting, installing mockups, the preparation and production of
contract documents, solicitations, bill of sale,
or other agreements or documents, or the
advertising and taking of bids, architect and
design services, costs for structural and
maintenance studies, estimating and cost
benefit consulting services, general engineering
services, consulting services and other
technical advice and assistance, construction
management, construction, installation,
renovation, rehabilitation, repair, expansion,
reconfiguration, improvement, and inspection
work or cost, the equipping and furnishing of
Airport property including, without
limitation, supplies, trucks, mowers,
materials, parts and equipment, and other
necessary and related work or services for the
development, construction, installation,
implementation, administration, management
or monitoring of the Airfield, Building &
Environs Projects at a total estimated cost of
Thirty Million Dollars (30,000,000);
authorizing an initial appropriation in the total
amount of Thirteen Million Two Hundred
Eighty Seven Thousand Two Hundred
Seventy One Dollars ($13,287,271) from the
Airport Development Fund to be expended
for the payment of costs for work and services
authorized herein and providing for the receipt
of supplemental appropriations when
authorized by ordinance into this Ordinance
as funds become available to continue the
Airfield, Building & Environs Projects;
authorizing the Mayor and the Comptroller
of the City of St. Louis (“City”) to enter into
and execute on behalf of the City easement
agreements granting such easements or rightof-ways as are necessary to the administration
or implementation of the Airfield, Building &
Environs Projects; authorizing AND directing
the Director of Airports with the approval of
the Board of Estimate and Apportionment to

let contracts providing for mapping,
appraisal, and escrow services, title work,
ground maintenance, security services, legal
services, and other related services for the
implementation and administration of the
Airfield, Building & Environs Projects;
authorizing and directing the Board of Public
Service with the advice, consent, and approval
of the Director of Airports to let contracts for
all other approved work or services, purchase
materials, supplies, and equipment, employ
labor, pay salaries, wages, fees, retain
consultants and otherwise provide for the
work or services authorized herein; providing
that any contract let hereunder, will be subject
to the City’s Charter and applicable City
ordinances and Missouri State laws or
regulations applicable thereto; authorizing and
directing the Comptroller of the City to draw
warrants from time to time on the Treasurer
of the City for payment of expenses
authorized herein upon submission of
properly certified vouchers in conformance
with procedures established by the
Comptroller and, authorizing, as necessary
and appropriate, the Comptroller, Treasurer,
City Counselor, and other appropriate
officers, agents and employees of the City to
make such applications or certifications and
provide such data to the appropriate parties,
and to take whatever action necessary in order
to provide for the payment or reimbursement
of eligible costs authorized herein; authorizing
and directing the Director of Airports to make
such applications and provide such data and
to take whatever action necessary to seek
funds under the Airport Improvement
Program, the Passenger Facility Charge
Program or other federal, state or local
programs for projects herein authorized, and
to authorize the deposit of such funds as may
be appropriate into this Ordinance to
reimburse or pay in part for the costs of the
Airfield, Building & Environs Projects herein
authorized; directing that all contracts let under
authority of this Ordinance be in compliance
with all applicable minority and women or
disadvantaged business enterprise
requirements and in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, court decisions and
executive orders relating to equal employment
opportunity; and containing a severability and
an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 148

An ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission, the Board of Public
Service, and the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (“St. Louis”) to enter

into and execute on behalf of St. Louis an
Agreement and Contract of Sale
(“Agreement”) substantially in the form as
set out in ATTACHMENT “1” to this
Ordinance, which is attached hereto and
incorporated herein, between St. Louis, the
owner and operator of Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”), which is
located in St. Louis County, Missouri, and
NorthPark Partners, LLC, a Missouri
corporation (“NorthPark”), providing for the
sale of approximately 6.475 acres of property
owned by St. Louis and located in St. Louis
County (“St. Louis Property”), which is more
fully described in Section 1.A of the Agreement
and Exhibit “A” thereto entitled “Legal
Description of St. Louis Property”, for the
sum of Two Hundred Twenty Five Thousand
Dollars ($225,000), and providing for the
purchase of approximately 0.35 acres of
property owned by NorthPark and located in
St. Louis County (the “NorthPark
Property”), which is more fully described in
Section 1.B of the Agreement and Exhibit “B”
thereto entitled “Legal Description of
NorthPark Property”, for the sum of
Seventeen Thousand Seven Hundred Dollars
($17,700), subject to and in accordance with
its provisions, and to the applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration (“FAA”) and the applicable
provision of the Airport’s Amended and
Restated Indenture of Trust between UMB
Bank, N.A., Trustee, dated October 15, 1984
as amended, and Restated on September 10,
1997 as amended; authorizing and directing
the Mayor and the Comptroller of St. Louis
to enter into and execute on behalf of St. Louis
the quit claim deed substantially in the form
as set out in Exhibit “D” to the Agreement
entitled “Form of Quit Claim Deed for St.
Louis Property”, remising, releasing,
conveying, and forever quit-claiming unto
NorthPark, its successors in interest and
assigns, the St. Louis Property subject to the
easement and restrictive covenants as defined
and provided for in said quit claim deed;
authorizing and directing the Mayor and the
Comptroller of St. Louis to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis, a quit claim
deed substantially in the form as set out in
Exhibit “E” to the Agreement entitled “Form
of Quit Claim Deed for NorthPark Property”,
remising, releasing, conveying, and forever
quit-claiming unto St. Louis, its successors in
interest, and assigns the NorthPark Property;
authorizing and directing the Mayor and the
Comptroller of St. Louis to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis an “Easement
Agreement”, substantially in the form as set
out in Exhibit “C” to the Agreement entitled
“Form of Easement Agreement”, whereby St.

Louis is granting to NorthPark a non-exclusive
easement on certain property owned by St.
Louis and more fully described in the Easement
Agreement for the purpose of installing,
maintaining, repairing and operating a storm
water detention basin management system or
facility, subject to the provisions of the
Easement Agreement; authorizing the Mayor,
the Comptroller, the Register, the City
Counselor, the Director of Airports, and other
appropriate officers, agents, and employees
of St. Louis, with the advice of the Director of
Airports, to enter into and execute on behalf
of St. Louis and in St. Louis’ best interest any
attendant or related documents, agreements,
permits,
amendments,
affidavits,
certifications, or instruments deemed
necessary to effectuate the terms set forth in
the Agreement, and/or deemed necessary to
preserve and protect St. Louis’ interest, and/
or to take such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate in connection with the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated herein; providing that the
provisions set forth in this Ordinance will be
applicable exclusively to the agreements,
documents, permits, and instruments
approved and/or authorized by this
Ordinance; and containing a severability clause
and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 149
An ordinance recommended by the
Airport Commission and the Board of
Estimate and Apportionment authorizing and
directing the Director of Airports and the
Comptroller of the City of St. Louis (“City”)
to enter into and execute on behalf of the City
a Dual Customs Agreement (AL-353)
(“Agreement”) substantially in the form as
set out in ATTACHMENT “1” to this
Ordinance, which is attached hereto and
incorporated herein, between the City, the
owner and operator of Lambert-St. Louis
International Airport® (“Airport”), which is
located in St. Louis County, Missouri, and
Brownsville International Air Cargo, Inc.,
doing business as Bi-National Air Cargo
Terminals, a Texas corporation (“BIAC”),
memorializing the City’s and BIAC’s mutual
understandings and commitments to each other
for cooperation to obtain approval for,
establish, and develop a “Dual Customs” (as
defined in the Agreement) cargo facility at the
Airport and to allow and require BIAC to
provide for, develop, and operate certain
aspects of a Dual Customs facility, and to
offer certain aeronautical and non-aeronautical
services and facilities to air cargo operators at
the Airport, subject to and in accordance with
the provisions of the Agreement; authorizing
and directing the Mayor and the Comptroller

of the City to enter into and execute on behalf
of the City the Restated and Amended First
Right of Refusal - Cargo City Agreement (AL352), between the City and BIAC,
substantially in the form as set out in
EXHIBIT A to the Agreement”, granting to
BIAC a first right of refusal to lease certain
premises at the Airport commonly known as
“Cargo Building No. 3”, as more fully
described in the Agreement and EXHIBIT A
thereto, subject to and in accordance with the
provisions of the Restated and Amended First
Right of Refusal - Cargo City Agreement (AL352); authorizing and directing the Mayor and
the Comptroller of St. Louis to enter into and
execute on behalf of St. Louis, the First Right
of Refusal - Northern Tract Agreement (East
Site) (AL-317), between the City and BIAC,
substantially in the form as set out in
EXHIBIT B to the Agreement, granting to
BIAC a first right of refusal to lease certain
premises at the Airport commonly known as
the “Northern Tract - East Site”, as more
fully described in the Agreement and
EXHIBIT B thereto, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of the First
Right of Refusal - Northern Tract Agreement
(East Side) (AL-317); authorizing the Mayor,
the Comptroller, the Register, the City
Counselor, the Director of Airports, and other
appropriate officers, agents, and employees
of the City, with the advice of the Director of
Airports, to enter into and execute on behalf
of the City and in the City’s best interest any
attendant or related documents, agreements,
permits,
amendments,
affidavits,
certifications, or instruments deemed
necessary to effectuate the terms set forth in
the Agreement, and/or deemed necessary to
preserve and protect the City’s interest, and/
or to take such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate in connection with the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated herein; providing that the
provisions set forth in this Ordinance shall be
applicable exclusively to the agreements,
documents, permits, and instruments
approved and/or authorized by this
Ordinance; and containing a severability clause.

Board Bill No. 150

An Ordinance recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment authorizing and directing the
Director of Airports and the Comptroller of
the City of St. Louis (the “City”) to enter
into and execute on behalf of the City seven
(7) On-Airport Passenger Vehicle Rental
(“PVR”) Concession Agreements (the “PVR
Concession Agreements”) at Lambert - St.
Louis International Airport (the “Airport”)
between the City and the following

concessionaires: a) The Hertz Corporation,
b) Avis Rent a Car System, LLC d/b/a Avis
Rent a Car, c) Enterprise Leasing Company
of STL, LLC d/b/a National Rent a Car, d)
Enterprise Leasing Company of STL, LLC d/
b/a Enterprise Rent a Car, e) Budget Rent a
Car System, LLC d/b/a Budget Rent a Car, f)
Enterprise Leasing Company of STL, LLC d/
b/a Alamo Rent a Car and g) C&J Rental, Inc.
d/b/a Thrifty Car Rental, granting to each
concessionaire the right, license, and privilege
to operate a non-exclusive PVR Concession
at the Airport subject to the terms, covenants,
and conditions of their PVR Concession
Agreement with the City, which were
approved by the Airport Commission and are
more fully described in Section One of this
Ordinance; directing that the PVR Concession
Agreements be in compliance with all
applicable disadvantaged business enterprise
requirements and in compliance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, court decisions and
executive orders relating to equal employment
opportunity; and containing an emergency
clause.

Board Bill No. 124
(Committee Substitute)
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment and the Board
of Public Services, approving the assignment
by CLP LEASEHOLD GOLF LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, successor
by name change to CNL Income EAGL
Leasehold Golf LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, the current lessee, (the
“Lessee”) to CF FOREST PARK ARCIS
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
as the assignee (the “Assignee”).

Board Bill No. 161
An ordinance authorizing the execution
of an intergovernmental cooperation
agreement between the City and the Carrie
Avenue Community Improvement District
prescribing the form and details of said
agreement; making certain findings with respect
thereto; authorizing certain other actions of
city officials; and containing a severability
clause and an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 138
An ordinance repealing Ordinance 68997
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance
prohibiting the issuance of any package or
drink liquor licenses for any currently nonlicensed premises within the boundaries of
the Twenty-Seventh Ward Liquor Control
District, as established herein, for a period of
three years from the effective date hereof;
containing an exception allowing, during the
moratorium period, for the transfer of existing

licenses, under certain circumstances, and the
issuance of a drink license to persons operating
a restaurant at a previously non-licensed
premises; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 139
An ordinance repealing Ordinance 69009
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance
prohibiting the issuance of any package or
drink liquor licenses for any currently nonlicensed premises within the boundaries of
the Fourteenth Ward Liquor Control District,
as established herein, for a period of two years
from the effective date hereof; containing an
exception allowing, during the moratorium
period, for the transfer of existing licenses,
under certain circumstances, and the issuance
of a drink license to persons operating a
restaurant at a previously non-licensed
premises; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 168
An Ordinance repealing Ordinance No.
69597 and in lieu thereof enacting a new
ordinance prohibiting the issuance of any
package or drink liquor licenses for any
currently non-licensed premises within the
boundaries of the Tenth Ward Liquor Control
District, as established herein, for a period of
three years from the effective date hereof;
containing an exception allowing, during the
moratorium period, for the transfer of existing
licenses, under certain circumstances, and the
issuance of a drink license to persons operating
a restaurant at a previously non-licensed
premises; and containing an emergency clause.

Board Bill No. 175
An ordinance repealing Ordinance 69594
and in lieu thereof enacting a new ordinance
prohibiting the issuance of any package liquor
licenses for any currently non-licensed
premises within the boundaries of the TwentySecond Ward Liquor Control District, as
established herein, for a period of three years
from the effective date hereof; containing
exceptions and allowing, during the moratorium
period, for the transfer of existing licenses,
under certain circumstances; and containing
an emergency clause.
David W. Sweeney, Clerk
Board of Aldermen

Office of the Mayor
None.

PETITIONS & COMMUNICATIONS
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
- INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

BOARD BILLS FOR
THIRD READING
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

RESOLUTIONS
– INFORMAL CALENDAR
None.

FIRST READING
OF BOARD BILLS

Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 191

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate Walton Avenue
as “Rev. Melvin Smotherson Avenue.”
Board Member Ingrassia introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 192

An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 5, 2014,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District to the “C” MultipleFamily Dwelling District, in City Block 2063
(3019-21 & 3029 Arsenal), so as to include
the described parcels of land in City Block
2063; and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Williamson introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 193

An ordinance authorizing and directing
the Street Commissioner to take all necessary
actions to honorarily designate Goodfellow
Boulevard between Enright Avenue and
Delmar Boulevard as “Rev. Tommie C. Ringo
Boulevard.”
Board Member Roddy introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 194

An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment authorizing
the execution of a Third Amendment to
redevelopment agreement between the City
of St. Louis, Missouri, and St. Louis
Innovation District, LLC; establishing the
SSTIF account of the St. Louis Innovation
District Special Allocation Fund; authorizing
and directing the mayor and the comptroller
to execute and deliver a second supplemental
trust indenture, a financing agreement, a tax
compliance agreement and a continuing
disclosure agreement; superseding provisions
of prior ordinances of the City to the extent
inconsistent with the terms hereof; authorizing
certain actions by city officials; and containing
a severability clause.

Board Member Members Young and
Vollmer introduced by request:

Board Bill No. 195
An ordinance recommended by the Board
of Estimate and Apportionment of The City
of St. Louis, Missouri (the “City”) authorizing
and directing the St. Louis Municipal Finance
Corporation (the “Corporation”) to issue and
sell its Leasehold Revenue Refunding Bonds
in order to refund all or a portion of its
outstanding Refunded Bonds (as defined
herein) and its Leasehold Revenue
Improvement Bonds to fund the construction,
repair, improvement and renovation of the
Cervantes Convention Center (as defined
herein) (collectively, the “Leasehold Revenue
Bonds”) in an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $25,000,000 for the general welfare,
safety and benefit of the citizens of the City;
authorizing and directing the officers of the
Corporation to execute and deliver the
Supplemental Indenture (as defined herein),
the Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement
(as defined herein), the Supplemental Deed of
Trust (as defined herein), the Official
Statement (as defined herein), and the Bond
Purchase Agreement (as defined herein);
authorizing the City to execute and deliver, as
necessary or desirable to facilitate the
transactions contemplated hereby, the
Supplemental Lease Purchase Agreement, the
Tax Compliance Agreement (as defined
herein), the Continuing Disclosure Agreement
(as defined herein), the Official Statement, and
the Bond Purchase Agreement; providing for
a debt service reserve fund or funds, if any,
and a capitalized interest fund or funds, if
any, for the Leasehold Revenue Bonds (as
defined herein); authorizing the Corporation
and the City to obtain credit enhancement for
all or any portion of the Leasehold Revenue
Bonds from one or more Credit Providers (as
defined herein); authorizing the payment of
any obligations due to such Credit Provider
or Credit Providers, if any; and authorizing
the Comptroller and any other appropriate
City officials to execute the Credit Agreement
(as defined herein) and other documents
related thereto, if any; authorizing
participation of appropriate City officials in
preparing the Official Statement; authorizing
the acceptance of the terms of the Bond
Purchase Agreement and the taking of further
actions with respect thereto; authorizing the
payment of certain costs of issuance of the
Leasehold Revenue Bonds; authorizing and
directing the taking of other actions and
approval and execution of other documents
as necessary or desirable to carry out and
comply with the intent hereof; superseding
provisions of prior ordinances of the City to

the extent inconsistent with the terms hereof;
and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Schmid introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 196
An ordinance, recommended and
approved by the Board of Estimate and
Apportionment, authorizing the Mayor of the
City of St. Louis, on behalf of the City, to
apply for funding under the United States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Office of Healthy
Homes and Lead Hazard Control being offered
pursuant to a Federal Fiscal Year 2014 Notice
of Funding Availability (the “NOFA”) for the
Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant
(LHRD) Program, authorizing the Mayor and
the Comptroller on behalf of the City to enter
into and execute agreements with HUD for
the receipt of Fiscal Year 2014 Lead Hazard
Reduction Demonstration, appropriating the
sum of a maximum federal obligation of Two
Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($2,500,000) awarded through the LHRD
Grant Program, and directing the Director of
Public Safety and the Building Commissioner,
the Health Commissioner and Director of the
Community Development Administration
(CDA) to contract with municipal agencies,
non-profit corporations and other entities as
necessary for the expenditure of LHRD funds
for the purpose of expansion and continuation
of the Mayor’s Lead Safe St. Louis
Comprehensive Action Plan which will include
activities such as lead screening, testing,
outreach, education, inspection services,
clearance testing, lead hazard remediation,
enforcement, temporary relocation ,
administration, and directing the Comptroller
to issue warrants thereon upon the City
Treasury; and containing an emergency clause.
Board Member Kennedy introduced by
request:

Board Bill No. 197
An Ordinance recommended by the
Board of Estimate and Apportionment
authorizing The City of St. Louis, Missouri
(the “City”) to establish green community
program for the purpose of making lowinterest loans for residential energy efficiency
projects and public building energy
conservation projects and to issue and sell, in
one or more series, its Qualified Energy
Conservation Bonds (Energy Efficiency
Program), Series 2014 in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $3,900,000 (the “Series
2014 Bonds” or “Bonds”) in order to finance
public building energy conservation projects
and the low-interest loan green community

program, all for the general welfare, safety
and benefit of the citizens of the City,
authorizing and directing the City to execute
and deliver the Indenture, the Tax Compliance
Agreement, the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement, the Offering Document, the Bond
Purchase Agreement, and the Credit
Agreement, if any (all as defined herein);
authorizing the City to obtain credit
enhancement for the Series 2014 Bonds from
a Credit Provider (as defined herein);
authorizing the payment of any obligations
due to a Credit Provider, if any, and authorizing
the Comptroller and any other appropriate
City officials to execute the Credit Agreement
and other documents related thereto, if any;
authorizing participation of appropriate City
officials in preparing a disclosure document
in the form of either an Official Statement or
Private Placement Memorandum (the
“Offering Document”), if any; authorizing the
acceptance of the terms of the Bond Purchase
Agreement and the taking of further actions
with respect thereto; authorizing the payment
of certain costs of issuance, green community
program expenses and/or reimbursement of
city general fund expenses in connection with
the Series 2014 Bonds; authorizing and
directing the taking of other actions and
approval and execution of other documents
as necessary or desirable to carry out and
comply with the intent hereof; superseding
provisions of prior ordinances of the City to
the extent inconsistent with the terms hereof;
and containing an emergency clause.

REFERENCE TO COMMITTEE
OF BOARD BILLS
Convention and Tourism
Board Bill No. 195.
Engrossment, Rules and Resolutions
None.
Health and Human Services
Board Bill No. 196.
Housing, Urban Development & Zoning
Board Bills No. 192 and 194.
Intergovernmental Affairs
None.
Legislation
None.
Neighborhood Development
None.
Parks and Environmental Matters
None.
Personnel and Administration
None.
Public Employees
None.

Public Safety
None.
Public Utilities
None.
Streets, Traffic and Refuse
Board Bills No. 191 and 193.
Transportation and Commerce
None.
Ways and Means
Board Bill No. 197.

SECOND READING AND REPORT
OF STANDING COMMITTEES
None.

REPORT OF
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
None.

PERFECTION
CONSENT CALENDAR
Mr. Roddy moved that the following
Board Bills before the Board for perfection,
be perfected as reported out of Committee
with its recommendation “Do Pass”: Board
Bills No. 125, 160, 167, 169, 170 and 171.
Seconded by Mr. Arnowitz.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

BOARD BILLS FOR PERFECTION
None.

THIRD READING
CONSENT CALENDAR
None.

THIRD READING, REPORT OF
THE ENGROSSMENT COMMITTEE
AND FINAL PASSAGE
OF BOARD BILLS
None.

REPORT OF THE
ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE
None.

COURTESY RESOLUTIONS
CONSENT CALENDAR
President Reed introduced Resolutions
No. 158 through 160 and the Clerk was
instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 158
Reverend Melvin Smotherson
WHEREAS, It has to the attention of
this honorable Board of Alderman of the City
of St. Louis of the upcoming celebration of
the Reverend Melvin Smotherson to be held
at Cornerstone Institutional Baptist Church
Sunday, November 9, 2014 at 3pm; and

WHEREAS, Rev. Melvin Smotherson

is the Founder and Pastor of Cornerstone
Institutional Baptist Church; and
WHEREAS, he pushed for a
cooperative venture between private funders,
the church, community groups and the City
to fund and construct decorative sculpture at
street blockage at Walton and Washington
Streets with other capital improvements to
the block; and
WHEREAS, Rev. Melvin Smotherson
raised money and renovated the vacate building
at Washington and Walton for the church and
for community use. He has allowed
community organizations to use the facility,
organized summer youth programming for
area youth and worked with various civil rights
organizations to push for equal rights for the
disenfranchised; and
WHEREAS, Rev. Smotherson has also
been the pastor of the First Baptist Church,
Creve Coeur 1963-71; Cong., Historian
Baptist State Sunday School & BTU 197475; Vice President of the Ministers Union of
Greater St Louis 1977-79; pastor Washington
Tabernacle Baptist Church 1971-80 and pastor
of Cornerstone Institutional Baptist Church
since 1980; and
WHEREAS, Rev. Smotherson was the
Junior Warden/Grand Chaplain and Deputy
Grand Master of the Most Worshipful Prince
Hall Grand Lodge; Honorable Mention of the
Michigan Grand Lodge F&AM; Deputy
Imperial Chaplin of the Ancient Egyptian
Arabic Order and a member of the executive
committee of the NAACP; and
WHEREAS, he was born Nov 6, 1936
in Hattiesburg, MS the son of Melvin and
Estella S Rogers, married Geraldine Jackson
on Jun 23, 1957 and has children: Charles,
Bwayne, Pamela & Darren; and
WHEREAS, the contributions of Rev.
Smotherson are too numerous to cover in this
one writing; and
WHEREAS, because of his many
accomplishments on behave of this
community and the church efforts are now
underway to honorifically name the 500 block
of Walton the Rev. Melvin Smotherson
Avenue.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we happily pause in
our deliberations to recognize the many
contributions of the Rev. Melvin Smotherson
and by adoption of this resolution wish to
join in with all others honoring him and we
further direct the Clerk of this Board to spread

a copy of this Resolution across the
permanent rolls of this Board and to prepare
a commemorative copy of this Resolution to
the end that it may be presented to our honoree
at a time and place deemed appropriate by
the Sponsor.
Introduced on this 7th day of November, 2014
by:
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard

Resolution No. 159

THE INVITATION
WHEREAS, peace is the breath of our
spirit; and

WHEREAS, peace is our birthright; and

WHEREAS, the world is in the midst of
change; and

WHEREAS, we affirm that Peace is an
idea whose time has come; and

WHEREAS, world peace begins within
ourselves; and

WHEREAS, peace is first a state of
mind; and

WHEREAS, peace is active, the motion
of silence, of faith, of accord, of service; and

WHEREAS, peace is achieved by those
who fulfill their part of a greater plan; and

WHEREAS, living peaceably begins by
thinking peacefully; and

WHEREAS, the School of Metaphysics
is raising awareness and increasing the
commitment to Peace in St. Louis by hosting
THE INVITATION, a play about Peace, at
Cardinal Ritter College Prep.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to recognize the School of
Metaphysics is raising awareness and
increasing the commitment to Peace in St. Louis
by hosting THE INVITATION and we further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative
copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honorees at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.

Introduced on the 14th day of November, 2014
by:
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard

Resolution No. 160

James M. Wilkes
WHEREAS, James M. Wilkes is a
longtime resident of the city’s 3rd Ward, a

proud United States Marine Corps Veteran,
an entrepreneur and a man who has dedicated
his life to public service; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wilkes answered a call
to service as a young man, becoming one of
the first 2,000 African-American males
enlisted in the United States Marine Corps,
where he would serve in WWII and the Korea
War; and

WHEREAS, in April of 1993 Mr.
Wilkes was asked by then Mayor Freeman
Bosley, Jr. to serve the residents of the City
of St. Louis by accepting an appointment to
the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Tax
Equalization Board - a board comprised of
three highly skilled professionals with
expertise in the areas taxation and accounting
who’ve demonstrated an ability to attract new
manufacturing business to the City of St.
Louis; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Wilkes, commended
for his contributions and leadership on this
board, was subsequently re-appointed by
Mayor’s Harmon and Slay, including as board
chair, overseeing some 800 manufacturing
businesses for accuracy, growth, problems and
stability; and

WHEREAS, in 2013, some 60 years
after the war ended, Wilkes was one of three
servicemen in St. Louis recognized with the
Congressional Gold Medal, one of the nation’s
highest honors, for defending freedom around
the world in World Ward II, while also fighting
for racial equality and full citizenship here in
the United States; and

WHEREAS, we now wish to recognize
and honor James M. Wilkes’ service to the
residents and businesses of the City of St.
Louis on the occasion of his retirement from
the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Tax
Equalization Board after 21 years; and

WHEREAS, we thank the entire Wilkes’
family - especially his wife, Mrs. Delores
Minges-Wilkes and 8 children but also, in later
years, his 23 grandchildren, 16 greatgrandchildren, and 2 great-great grandchildren,
for supporting James in his service of this
country and city.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED by the Board of Aldermen of
the City of St. Louis that we pause in our
deliberations to join with friends, family, and
co-workers, as we wish James M. Wilkes
peace and happiness in his retirement and
thank him for a life of service. We further
direct the Clerk of this Board to spread a copy
of this Resolution across the minutes of these
proceedings and to prepare a commemorative

copy to the end that it may be presented to
our honoree at a time and place deemed
appropriate by the Sponsor.
Introduced this 14th day of November, 2014
by:
Honorable Freeman Bosley, Sr.,Alderman 3rdWard
HonorableLewisE.Reed,President,BoardofAldermen
Honorable SharonTyus,Alderwoman 1st Ward
Honorable Dionne Flowers,Alderwoman 2ndWard
Honorable Samuel L. Moore,Alderman 4thWard
HonorableTammikaHubbard,Alderwoman5thWard
Honorable Christine Ingrassia,Alderwoman 6thWard
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Honorable Stephen J. Conway,Alderman 8thWard
HonorableKennethA.Ortmann,Alderman9thWard
Honorable JosephVollmer,Alderman 10thWard
HonorableThomas Villa,Alderman 11th Ward
Honorable LarryArnowitz,Alderman 12thWard
HonorableBethMurphy,Alderwoman13thWard
Honorable Carol Howard,Alderwoman 14thWard
Honorable Megan E. Green,Alderwoman 15th Ward
Honorable Donna Baringer,Alderwoman 16thWard
Honorable Joseph Roddy,Alderman 17thWard
HonorableTerryKennedy,Alderman18thWard
Honorable Marlene Davis,Alderwoman 19thWard
Honorable Craig Schmid,Alderman 20thWard
HonorableAntonio D. French,Alderman 21stWard
Honorable Jeffrey L. Boyd,Alderman 22ndWard
Honorable JosephVaccaro,Alderman 23rdWard
Honorable Scott Ogilvie,Alderman 24thWard
Honorable Shane Cohn,Alderman 25thWard
Honorable FrankWilliamson,Alderman 26thWard
Honorable Chris Carter,Alderman 27thWard
Honorable Lyda Krewson,Alderwoman 28thWard
Unanimous consent having been
obtained Resolutions No. 158 through 160
stood considered.
President Reed moved that Resolutions
No. 158 through 160 be adopted, at this
meeting of the Board.
Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Mr. Vaccaro moved that Resolution No.
160 be passed en banc.
Seconded by Ms. Ingrassia.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
President Reed renewed his motion.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

FIRST READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
Ms. Young introduced Resolution No.
161 and the Clerk was instructed to read same.

Resolution No. 161
WHEREAS, Ordinance 67794,
approved January 14, 2008, established that
the annual proceeds of a sales tax shall be

initially deposited in a City Public Safety
Protection Sales Tax Fund and shall be
dedicated to and used for various purposes,
commencing with the fiscal year beginning July
1, 2008, and each fiscal year thereafter; and

WHEREAS, Section One (v) of such
Ordinance provides that one million dollars
($1,000,000) shall be allocated annually for
crime prevention programs to be administered
by resolution of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen with approval of the Public Safety
Committee and overseen by the City’s public
safety department; and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT
RESOLVED that pursuant to Ordinance
67794 the Public Safety Committee does
hereby approve the recommendations of the
Public Safety Committee for
the
appropriation of crime prevention program
funds for the Fiscal Year 2015 attached hereto
and Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that
copies of this resolution are to be maintained
by the Clerk of the Board of Aldermen; printed
in the Journal of the Board of Aldermen and
delivered to the Director of Public Safety, the
Budget Division and the Comptroller.

Introduced on the 14th day of November, 2014
by:
Honorable PhyllisYoung,Alderwoman 7th Ward
Exhibit A to Resolution 161
PROPOSITION S
NAME

2015
AMOUNT

Better Family Life
$ 25,000
Big Brothers/Big Sisters
30,000
Covenant
40,000
22nd Judicial
35,000
Gene Slay
30,000
Good Journey
35,000
Harambee
50,000
Greater St. Louis Comm. Fed.
96,000
Mers
30,000
Northside (Lawn Program)
20,000
Pianos For People
15,000
Roosevelt
60,000
St. John
31,000
SLATE
99,082
Wyman
38,421
_____________
$634,503

Ms. Young moved that Resolution No.
161 be referred to the Public Safety
Committee.

Seconded by Mr. Schmid.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.

SECOND READING
OF RESOLUTIONS
None.

MISCELLANEOUS AND
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
None.

EXCUSED ALDERMEN
Mr. Roddy moved to excuse the
following aldermen due to their necessary
absence: Ms. Tyus and Ms. Davis.
Seconded by Mr. Cohn.
Carried by voice vote.

ADJOURNMENT
Mr. Roddy moved to adjourn under rules
to return November 21, 2014.
Seconded by Ms. Howard.
Carried unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
David W. Sweeney
Clerk, Board of Aldermen

BOARD OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
REGULAR MEETING
St. Louis, MO - November 18, 2014

The Board met at 1:45 p.m.
Present: Directors Waelterman, Bess,
Rice-Walker, Gray and President Bradley.
Absent: Directors Skouby, Bess and
Siedhoff. (excused)
Requests of the Directors of Public
Utilities, Parks, Recreation and Forestry and
Human Services to be excused from the Regular
Meeting of November 18, 2014 was read and
leaves of absence granted.
Minutes of the Regular Meeting of
November 18, 2014 were unanimously
approved.
Hearings were held on the following
matters:

HEARINGS
Hearing No. 8165 Playtime Academy,
denial of permit and license to operate a 24
hour day care center at 3739 Page, permit and
license ordered approved.

PRESIDENT
Detailed plans and specifications for the
following work approved and Board set date
of January 6, 2015 for opening bids for work
and Secretary instructed to insert the proper
advertisement therefore:
Letting No. 8565 - Kingshighway Bridge
Reconstruction over Union Pacific Railroad,
Project No. BRM-STP 5425 (612)
Preliminary approval given and 10 days
granted in which to sign same:
Letting No. 8558 - Carondelet Park ADA
Upgrade to Comfort Station, Raineri
Construction LLC, 1300 Hampton, Suite 200,
St. Louis, MO 63139, Amount: $152,291.32
Maintenance Agreement between
Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District, 2350
Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103 and
the City of St. Louis for the issuance of a
sewer permit by MSD for storm water
management facilities for Oakland-Skinker to
Hampton (Oakland Street Improvements BPS Project #2012-40-155) approved and
President authorized to execute same.

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC STREETS
2 Permits ordered approved, subject to
certain conditions as follows: 120976, Laclede
Gas Company, install an anemometer on light
pole for water feature control at 700 Market,
120924, Union Electric Company d/b/a
Ameren Missouri, install 40' pole on west
side Compton south of I-44 (Compton Bridge
replacement)

DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Application No. 121004, Jazz St. Louis,
consolidate land at 3536 and 3540 Washington
in C.B. 1060 ordered approved, subject to
certain condition.

DIRECTOR OF STREETS
Application No. 120923, S and P
Properties (Lydia House), encroach with panel
and gate at 2254 Judith Court ordered denied,
by reason of the fact that the encroachment
would result in the street being closed at both
ends, limiting public access on City maintained
public right-of-way.

DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY
6 Conditional Use Permits with
conditions ordered approved as recommended
by the Hearing Officer, per Board Order No.
766.
1 approved:
121008, 5528 Botanical, construct single
family at 5528 Botanical (per plans),

4 approved with conditions:
121007, 910 Rutger, limo and chauffer
business (office use only) home occupancy
wavier,
121010, 4120 Upton, construction
business (office use only) home occupancy
wavier,
121009, 2207-11 So. 12th St., warehouse
and inside vehicle storage only,
121011, 1631 McLaren; home health
care business (office use only) home
occupancy waiver

Addendum No. 1 to Agenda Items for
November 18, 2014 ordered approved.
Agenda Items for November 18, 2014
ordered approved.

The Board adjourned to meet Tuesday,
November 25, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

Office of the
Board of Public Service
City of St. Louis

SEALED PROPOSALS will be received
for the Public Work hereinafter mentioned by
the Board of Public Service, 1200 Market
Street, Room 208 City Hall, until 1:45 P.M.,
St. Louis, Missouri time on December 16
2014 which time they will be publicly opened
and read, viz:
LETTING NUMBER: 8564
JOB TITLE: SECURITY UPGRADES
AT THE JUSTICE CENTER, ST. LOUIS,
MO.
DEPOSIT: $37,384.00

Drawings and Specifications may be examined
on the Board of Public Service website http:/
/www.stl-bps.org/planroom.aspx (BPS On
Line Plan Room) and may be purchased
directly through the BPS website from
INDOX Services at cost plus shipping.

Purchased sets become the property of
the prospective bidder and no refunds will
be made.

Proposals must be made on blank forms
to be furnished by the President of the Board
of Public Service, and must be submitted to
Room 208 City Hall.

NOTE: Bids will only be accepted by the
following prime contractors that

have been pre-qualified to bid on
this project:
Guarantee Electrical
Kozeny-Wagner
Sachs Systems
Tyco Integrated Security

A mandatory pre-bid conference for
all pre-qualified contractors bidding on
this project will be held on December 2,
2014 at 9:00 a.m. in the conference at the
Justice Center. Any questions related to
the bid documents should be introduced at
that time or referred to Roy Bachmann, Board
of Public Service in writing. Answers to such
questions will be given in the form of an
Addendum, which will be issued to all bidders.

After the pre-bid conference, the
prospective bidders will have the opportunity
to see the two rooms in the basement, the
control room, a typical equipment room on
one of the upper floors, the inside of one of
the pods and the main electrical room in the
basement. This will be an escorted tour.
There will be a separate building tour
for the mechanical sub-contractors and the
electrical contractor pre-qualified for installing
the power to the mechanical equipment at
9:00 a.m. on December 5, 2014. This tour
will include the two computer rooms and
the main electrical room. This will be an
escorted tour.
Each bidder shall specify in his proposal
in figures, without interlineations, alterations,
or erasures, a unit price for each of those items
where so called for in the proposal, and shall
show the products of the respective unit prices
and estimated quantities. He shall also show
in figures bid proposals for all items on which
Lump Sum figures are requested, and, in
addition thereto, at the end of the bid the Lump
Sum for which he will perform all of the
estimated work, as requested by the general
requirements and covenants, specifications,
and plans.
In case of a discrepancy between the
gross sum shown in the proposal and that
obtained by the addition of the bid prices as
applied to the basic items, the latter shall
prevail.
Each bid must be accompanied by a
Cashier’s or Treasurer’s Check of a Bank or
Trust Company in the City of Saint Louis,
payable to the Order of the City Treasurer, or
a Surety Bond approved by the Comptroller,
for the amount of Deposit required, as
heretofore stated.
All work under this contract will be paid

for in cash, based on monthly estimates of the
work completed, less a retained amount of
ten percent (10%). Final payment, including
all retained percentages, will be made within
ten (10) days after completion of all work and
final acceptance by the City.
The City of St. Louis will affirmatively
insure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, minority
business enterprises will be afforded full
opportunity to submit bids in response to
this invitation and will not be discriminated
against on the grounds of race, color or national
origin in consideration for an award. The
M/WBE goal for this project is 25% and 5%.
The Contract shall provide that not less
than the prevailing hourly rate of wages in the
City of St. Louis as determined by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations
of the State of Missouri for each craft or type
of workmen needed in the actual construction
work on the site of the construction job herein
authorized, as well as the general prevailing
rate for legal holiday and overtime work shall
be paid to all workmen.
All labor to be performed under this
contract shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 290.210 to 290.340, inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of Missouri.
All bidders must regard Federal
Executive Order 11246, “Notice of
Requirement for Affirmative Action to
Ensure Equal Employment Opportunity”,
the “Equal Opportunity Clause” and the
“Standard Federal Equal Employment
Specifications” set forth within and referenced
at www.stl-bps.org (Announcements).
The right of the Board of Public Service
to reject any or all bids is expressly reserved.
By Order of the Board of Public Service,
November 12, 2014.
Richard T. Bradley, P.E.
President
ATTEST:
Cherise D. Thomas
Secretary

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
BOARD OF PUBLIC SERVICE
REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS
for DESIGN SERVICES FOR TOWER
GROVE PARK, ST. LOUIS, MO.
Statements of Qualifications due by 5:00
P.M., CT, DECEMBER 4, 2014 at Board of
Public Service, 1200 Market, Room 301 City
Hall, St. Louis, MO 63103. RFQ may be
obtained from website www.stl-bps.org,

under On Line Plan Room, or call Bette Behan
at 314-589-6214. 25% MBE and 5% WBE
participation goals.

ADVERTISEMENT
Bridge Replacement/
Public Works Project
Kingshighway Bridge Over UPRR
Letting 8565

Sealed bids for Kingshighway Bridge
Reconstruction Over UPRR, Federal Project
No. BRM-STP-5425(612) will be received at:
St. Louis City Hall, 1200 Market, Room 208
until 1:45 o’clock p.m. (Prevailing Local Time)
on the 6th day of January, 2015 and at that
time will be publicly opened and read.

All bids shall be submitted on blank
forms to be furnished by the President of the
Board of Public Service and must be submitted
to Room 208, City Hall.

The proposed work includes removal
and replacement of Kingshighway Blvd. from
Bischoff to Shaw, including the removal of
the existing viaduct and the construction of
new bridges over UPRR and over Daggett,
plus the re-alignment of Shaw Blvd., east from
Kingshighway to the UPRR tracks.

Plans and specifications may be examined on
the Board of Public Service website http://
www.stl-bps.org/planroom.aspx (BPS OnLine Plan Room) and may be purchased
directly through the BPS website from
INDOX Services at cost plus shipping, if
applicable.

A pre-bid conference will be held at
10:00 A.M. on the 8th day of December,
2014, in Room 208 in St. Louis City Hall,
1200 Market Street. All bidders are
encouraged to attend the pre-bid meeting.

All labor used in the construction of this
public improvement shall be paid a wage no
less than the prevailing hourly rate of wages
of work of a similar character in this locality
as established by the Department of Labor
and Industrial Relations (Federal Wage Rate),
or state wage rate, whichever is higher.

The Board of Public Service hereby
notifies all bidders that it will affirmatively
ensure that in any contract entered into
pursuant to this advertisement, businesses
owned and controlled by socially and
economically disadvantaged individuals will
be afforded full opportunity to submit bids in
response to this invitation and will not be
discriminated against on the grounds of race,
color, religion, creed, sex, age, ancestry, or

national origin in consideration for an award.”
All bidders must be on MoDOT’s
Qualified Contractor List per Section 102.2
of the Missouri Standard Specifications for
Highway Construction, 2011 Edition including
all revisions. The contractor questionnaire
must be on file 7 days prior to bid opening.
Contractors and sub-contractors who
sign a contract to work on public works project
provide a 10-Hour OSHA construction safety
program, or similar program approved by the
Department of Labor and Industrial Relations,
to be completed by their on-site employees
within sixty (60) days of beginning work on
the construction project.
A certified or cashier’s check or a bid
bond in the amount of 5% shall be submitted
with each proposal.
The Board of Public Service reserves the
right to reject any or all bids.
The DBE Goal for this project is 12%.
No 2nd tier subcontracting will be allowed
on this project.

AGENDA
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
Regular Meeting
December 3, 2014
1:30 p.m.
Room 208, City Hall
1.

Call to order.

2. A public hearing to consider each of
the following;

APPEAL #10502 – Appeal filed by
Vera’s Fitness for the Kingdom, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of an occupancy permit
authorizing the Appellant to operate a fitness
center (gym) with cooking classes at 1854
Russell. WARD 7 #AO517595-14 ZONE:
“C” – Multiple Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10503 – Appeal filed by OSG
Towing LLC, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to have outside storage of trucks and cars in
the rear lot at 200 Penrose Street. WARD 2
#AO517126-14 ZONE: “J” – Industrial
District

APPEAL #10504 – Appeal filed by BG
Auto LLC, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a

building permit authorizing the Appellant to
do exterior alterations, per plans, and to add
auto sales with outside storage of vehicles to
existing auto repair business at 4700
Eichelberger. WARD 14 #AB517328-14
ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District
APPEAL #10505 – Appeal filed by
Bethany Christian Services, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to do interior alterations, per
plans, for an office (tenant finish), suite 202
at 1300 Hampton. WARD 24 #AB51672214 ZONE: “A” – Single Family Dwelling
District “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
APPEAL #10506 – Appeal filed by
CAZ Development LLC, from the
determination of the Building Commissioner
in the denial of a building permit authorizing
the Appellant to do interior alterations, per
plans, to convert a school into a multiple
family building, zoning only, at 4021-99 Iowa.
WARD 20 #AB517174-14 ZONE: “B” –
Two Family Dwelling District
APPEAL #10507 – Appeal filed by
Thomas Jerry, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
construct a charter school, per plans, zoning
only, at 3000-26 Minnesota Ave and 3019-21
& 3029 Arsenal St. WARD 6 #AB517747-14
ZONE: “C” – Multiple Family Dwelling
District “F” – Neighborhood Commercial
District
3.

Deliberations on the above hearings

4. Approval of Written decisions,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law from
hearings and deliberations held on November
19, 2014.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

AGENDA
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
CITY OF ST. LOUIS
Regular Meeting
December 10, 2014
1:30 p.m.
Room 208, City Hall
1.

Call to order.

2.

A public hearing to consider each of

the following;

APPEAL #10508 – Appeal filed by
Magic Chef Mansion, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
an occupancy permit authorizing the
Appellant to operate a meeting room with a
full drink bar and patio seating in the rear, no
cooking, at 3400-32R Russell Blvd. WARD
6 #AO518090-14 ZONE: “D” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10509 – Appeal filed by
CRM Hobbies, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of an
occupancy permit authorizing the Appellant
to operate a warehouse and distribution of
model kits and books, inside storage only, 1st
floor at 4972 Eichelberger. WARD 14
#AO517808-14 ZONE: “A” – Single
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10510 – Appeal filed by
Phillip 66, from the determination of the
Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
reface existing ground sign with a digital sign/
LED sign, per plans, at 4300 S. Kingshighway.
WARD 14 #AB517060-14 ZONE: “F” –
Neighborhood Commercial District

APPEAL #10511 – Appeal filed by
Maureen McCuen, from the determination of
the Building Commissioner in the denial of a
building permit authorizing the Appellant to
do interior and exterior alterations, per plans,
for a yoga/massage studio and a café at 4056
Russell. WARD 8 #AB517227-14 ZONE:
“B” – Two Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10512 – Appeal filed by
David Huchzermeir Jr., from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to do interior and exterior alterations, per plans,
zoning only, for a sit-down, carryout, full
drink restaurant with outside seating and
parking at 2800-14 Lemp Ave. WARD 9
#AB517706-14 ZONE: “D” – Multiple
Family Dwelling District

APPEAL #10513 – Appeal filed by Peak
Campus Development, from the determination
of the Building Commissioner in the denial of
a building permit authorizing the Appellant
to construct a multiple family structure,
zoning only, per plans, at 3700-3824 Olive
aka 323 N. Spring. WARD 19 #AB51683014 ZONE: “H” – Area Commercial
District
3.

Deliberations on the above hearings

4. Approval of Written decisions,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law from

hearings and deliberations held on December
3, 2014.
In accordance with the provisions of
Ordinance 59981, effective July 31, 1986.
S. Cunningham, Chairman

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday December 4, 2014 on the following
conditional uses:
5409 Cabanne - Home Occupancy
Waiver-City 1 Transportation, LLC (NonMedical Transportation/Office Use Only)
“C” Multiple Family Dwelling District. Bl
Ward 26
4018 McRee - Home Occupancy WaiverEZ JAN-PRO Cleaning Systems (Janitorial /
Office Use Only)“C” Multiple Family
Dwelling District. Te Ward 19
4427 Morganford - #AO-517885-14Eric Schwartz (Office/Inside Storage/Tools/
Supplies) “F”-Neighborhood Commercial
District. Bl Ward 14
4478 Natural Br. - #AO-518011-14Quick Shop One Market, LLC (Convenience
Store/Cooking/No Liquor) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Tel Ward 21
2800 N 14th St. - #AO-517781-14-La
Mancha Coffee House (Sitdown/Carryout/
Full Drink Restaurant/Sidewalk Seating/Ste B)
“F” Neighborhood Commercial District. Bl
Ward 5
4981 Thrush - #AB-517677-14Beginning Futures (Addition to Existing
Building per plans for Daycare) “A”- Single
Family Dwelling District. “F”-Neighborhood
Commercial District. Te Ward 27
3027 Locust - #AB-517854-14F.L.O.A.T. STL, LLC (Interior & Exterior
Alterations per plans for Bath House)“ H ”
Area Commercial District. Bl Ward 19
2700-20 N. Florissant - #AB-51566014-Family Dollar (Construct Commercial
Retail Building/Zoning Only) “G” Local
Commercial and Office District. Te Ward 5

PUBLIC NOTICE
A Conditional Use Hearing will be held
in Room 208 City Hall at 8:30 a.m. on
Thursday December 11, 2014 on the
following conditional uses:
4517 Idaho - Home Occupancy Waiver-

Mozaiq Construction (Construction/Office
Use Only) “B” Two Family Dwelling District.
Te Ward 25
7825 Decatur - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Scott’s Custom Concrete (General
Construction/Office Use Only) “A” Single
Family Dwelling District. Te Ward 12
6725 Westway - Home Occupancy
Waiver-Rosebud Soapworks, LLC (Soap
Making/Internet Sales/Office Use Only) “A”
Single Family Dwelling District. Bl Ward 16
2839 Cherokee - #AO-517785-14Swan River Yoga (Yoga Studio/1st Fl) “G” Local
Commercial and Office District. Bl Ward 9
3315 Meramec - #AO-517883-14-First
Priority Development Center, LLC (Daycare/
35 Children/2 ½ to 12yrs/Sun to Sat/6 am to
12 midn/No Cooking)“F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Bl Ward 25
111 Winnebago - #AO-515847-14-FW
Warehousing (Warehouse/Office Inside/Storage
of Food/Beverages/1 st fl) “J” Industrial
District. Bl Ward 20
4301 McRee - #AB-514885-14-UIC
(Interior Alterations per plans for Restaurant/
Bar/Bakery) “F”-Neighborhood Commercial
District. Te Ward 19
1901-15 N. Kingshighway - #AB518361-14-Hawthorn Leadership School for
Girls (Interior & Exterior Alterations per
plans for School) “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District. Bl Ward 1

PUBLIC NOTICE
The Housing, Urban Development and
Zoning Committee of the St. Louis Board of
Aldermen will hold a Public Hearing on
December 10, 2014 at 8:30 A.M. in the
Kennedy Room (208) in City Hall:

BOARD BILL NO. 192
Introduced By
Alderwoman Christine Ingrassia
An Ordinance recommended by the
Planning Commission on November 5, 2014,
to change the zoning of property as indicated
on the District Map, from “F” Neighborhood
Commercial District to the “C” MultipleFamily Dwelling District, in City Block 2063
(3019-21 & 3029 Arsenal), so as to include
the described parcels of land in City Block
2063; and containing an emergency clause.
Any person wishing to speak for or
against the above cited board bills should be
present.

Sincerely,
Donna Evans-Booker
Assistant Clerk, Board of Aldermen

ADVERTISEMENT
FOR BIDS

The ST. LOUIS AREA AGENCY ON
AGING (SLAAA) is seeking bids for the FY
2016 Senior Program (Catering and All
Aging Services) within the City of St. Louis.
Bid packets may be picked up after 3:00 p.m.,
November 25, 2014 at SLAAA, 1520
Market Street, Room 4065, St. Louis,
Missouri 63103, or by email request to
LewisT@stlouis-mo.gov.

There will be optional pre-bid
conferences on Wednesday, December 10,
2014, (Caterers); and Thursday, December
11, 2014, (All Services); at 1:30 P.M., 1520
Market Street, 1st Fl. Conference Room.
All sealed Bids must be received at the
SLAAA office not later than 9:00 a.m.,
January 30, 2015.

The City of St. Louis reserves the right
to accept or reject any or all responses, waive
any technicalities, or to cancel this request in
part or in its entirety.

CITY OF ST. LOUIS
LAMBERT - ST. LOUIS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT®
Solicitatin For Bids (SFB) for
Analytical Services

SEALED BIDS WANTED

Bid documents may be obtained at
Lambert St. Louis International Airport® Airport Properties Division, Monday
through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., or by calling (314) 426-8184. This SFB
may also be obtained by visiting our website
at www.flystl.com (Click on “Business”).
Robert Salarano
Airport Properties Division Manager

REQUEST FOR
PROPOSAL

The City of St. Louis Building Division
is soliciting proposals for a lead laboratory to
provide testing for dust wipes, paint chips,
and soil samples. Laboratory must be certified
under the National Lead Laboratory
Accreditation Program (NLLAP). Proposals

must include price for 24 hour turn around
time and for 72 hour turn around time for lead
analysis. Laboratory will be required to
provide at no additional charge centrifuge tubes
and dust wipes compliant with ASTM E
1973. To obtain a copy of this RFP please
contact:
Randall C. Mourning
Building Division
City Hall – Room 426
1200 Market Street
St. Louis, MO 63103
All responses shall be addressed and
returned in sealed envelopes or container to
the above address. RFP closing date is
January 5, 2015 5:00PM Central Standard
Time.

DEPARTMENT OF
PERSONNEL
NOTICE OF EXAMINATIONS

The City of St. Louis, Department of
Personnel, 1114 Market Street, Room 700,
announces competitive Civil Service
examinations to fill vacancies in the Municipal
Service.

_______________________________
The last date for filing an application for
the following examinations is DECEMBER
5, 2014.

CUSTOMER SERVICE
REPRESENTATIVE I
Prom./O.C. 2227
$27,924 to $42,250 (Annual Salary Range)

PROGRAM MANAGER II
(Homeless Services)
Prom. 2225
(OPEN TO PERMANENT CITY
EMPLOYEES ONLY)
$54,860 to $83,382 (Annual Salary Range)

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TECHNICIAN
Prom./O.C. 2226
$33,020 to $49,998 (Annual Salary Range)

_______________________________
Vacation, Holidays, Medical Leave,
Social Security, and Employee Retirement
System Benefits privileges are provided in
addition to salary.
Application forms and further
information concerning duties of positions,
desirable and necessary qualifications, relative
weights of examination components, and
duration of eligible lists may be secured at the
office of the Department of Personnel, 1114

Market Street, Room 700, St. Louis MO
63101. Applications can be submitted on the
Internet. Visit the City web site at
http://stlouis-mo.gov
Richard R. Frank,
Director
November 19, 2014

ST. LOUIS LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE ADJUSTMENT BULLETIN

NOTICE OF ST. LOUIS
LIVING WAGE RATES
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2014
In accordance with Ordinance No. 65597, the
St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance
(“Ordinance”) and the Regulations associated
therewith, the City Compliance Official for
the City of St. Louis has determined that the
following living wage rates are now in effect
for employees of covered contracts:
1)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are provided to the
employee, the living wage rate is
$12.37 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three); and

2)

Where health benefits as defined in
the Ordinance are not provided to
the employee, the living wage rate is
$16.18 per hour (130% of the federal
poverty level income guideline for a
family of three, plus fringe benefit
rates as defined in the Ordinance).

3)

Wages required under Chapter 6.20
of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis: $3.81 per hour.

These rates are based upon federal poverty
level income guidelines as defined in the
Ordinance and these rates are effective as of
April 1, 2014. These rates will be further
adjusted periodically when the federal poverty
level income guideline is adjusted by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services or
pursuant to Chapter 6.20 of the Revised Code
of the City of St. Louis.
The Ordinance applies to employers who are
covered by the Ordinance as defined in the
Ordinance, where the contract or grant is
entered into or renewed after the effective date
of the Ordinance, which is November 3, 2002.
A copy of the Ordinance may be viewed online
at http://www.mwdbe.org/livingwage or
obtained from:
City Compliance Official
Lambert-St. Louis International Airport®

Certification and Compliance Office
P.O. Box 10212
St. Louis, Mo 63145
(314) 426-8111
Dated: March 11, 2014

NOTICE TO ALL BIDDERS

CITY ORDINANCE requires that any
individual or company who performs work
within the City limits must obtain a Business
License. This would also apply to businesses
who employ sales or delivery personnel to
come into the City. Contracts requiring work
to be performed in the City will NOT be
awarded to unlicensed businesses.

ST. LOUIS LIVING
WAGE ORDINANCE
LIVING WAGE REQUIREMENTS

Bidders [Proponents] are hereby advised that
the St. Louis Living Wage Ordinance #65597
and associated Regulations apply to the
service [concession] [lease] [City Financial
Assistance] for which [bids] [proposals] are
being sought herein. This Ordinance requires
that, unless specific exemptions apply, all
individuals who perform work pursuant to a
contract executed between the successful
[bidder] [proponent] and the City [Agency]
must be paid a minimum of the applicable
Living Wage rates set forth in the attached
Living Wage Bulletin, and, if the rates are
adjusted during the term of the contract
pursuant to the Ordinance, applicable rates
after such adjustment is made. Each bidder
[proponent] must submit the attached “Living
Wage Acknowledgment and Acceptance
Declaration” with the bid [proposal]. Failure
to submit this Declaration with the bid
[proposal] will result in rejection of the bid
[proposal]. A successful bidder ’s
[proponent’s] failure to comply with contract
provisions related to the Living Wage
Ordinance may result in termination of the
contract and the imposition of additional
penalties as set forth in the Ordinance and
Regulations.

Copies of the Ordinance and Regulations
are available upon request from La Queta
Russell-Taylor, at (314) 426-8185, or can be
accessed at http://www.mwdbe.org/living
wage.

SUPPLY
COMMISSIONER
Office of the Supply Commissioner,
Room 324, City Hall, 1200 Market Street,
St. Louis, Missouri 63103, Tuesday,
NOVEMBER 25, 2014 - INFORMAL and
ADVERTISED BIDS will be received by the
undersigned to be opened at the office at 12:00
o'clock noon, for the items listed below on the
dates specified.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2014
Baldor Motor
per Requisition #63315Q0109. (JC)

In-Line Pump
per Requisition #42015Q0229. (SG)

Brush Set
per Requisition #42015Q0230. (LC)

Magnetic Locator
per Requisition #41515Q1076. (SG)

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2014
Tabletop Oak Lectern
per Requisition #90015Q0008. (JC)

Card Scanner System
per Requisition #21315Q0015. (LC)

Aircraft Recovery Ground Mat
per Requisition #42015Q0239. (SG)

12 Volt Start-All Unit
per Requisition #41515Q1074. (SG)

Heavy Duty Feeder Belts
per Requisition #41515Q1080. (SG)

Notice to All Suppliers

It is the policy of the City of St. Louis
that all firms desiring to do business with the
City of St. Louis must comply with
employment practices that are in accordance
with the ordinances of the City of St. Louis
and the Mayor’s Executive Order promulgated
there-under to the end that all Contractors
and suppliers of materials and services will
offer equal opportunity for employment and
job advancement to blacks and other minority
groups in the St. Louis Metropolitan area.

Obtaining Bids
To download bids log on to: http://
stlouis-mo.gov/supply/bid-notices.cfm then,
search available bids.
You may also contact the Supply
Commissioner’s office at (314) 622-4580 or

e-mail supplydivisionbidrequests.com.
Bidders are invited to be present at the
opening of bids. Bid results may be available
30 days following the date of bid opening.
If you desire bid results, please include a
self-address, stamped envelope with your bid.

Recycled Products
The City of St. Louis desires to
purchase recycled products whenever
possible, especially items containing post
consumer waste materials. If your company
can supply recycled products, please provide
information to this office.

Surplus Property
Notice is hereby given that the City of
St. Louis may have surplus property for sale
during the course of the year. The property
may be listed at www.govdeals.com or in the
City Journal.

Local Preference
ORDINANCE #69431
Board Bill No. 295
Committee Substitute As Amended
An Ordinance repealing Section One,
part 86.040 of Ordinance 56716, pertaining
to the opening of bids, codified as Section
5.58.040 of the Revised Code of the City of
St. Louis, and enacting a new provision on the
same subject matter which allows a local bidder
to match the lowest bid when the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder; enacting a new
provision on the same subject matter;
containing severability clause.
WHEREAS, local businesses which seek
to enter into contracts with the City of St.
Louis are at a competitive disadvantage with
businesses from other areas because of the
higher administrative costs of doing business
in the City;
WHEREAS, the City of St. Louis
desires to encourage businesses to remain in
the City and to relocate to the City;
WHEREAS, by enacting a local
preference law that allows a local firm to match
the lowest bid when its bid is within 2%
percent of the lowest bid, the City hopes to
encourage and stimulate local business.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE. Section One, part
86.040, Ordinance 56716 is hereby repealed.
SECTION TWO. Enacted in lieu
thereof is the following new section.
5.58.040 - Opening of bids.
A. Proposals shall be opened at the time

and place fixed by the advertisement, in the
presence of such bidders as desire to be
present, and shall be open to the inspection
of bidders.

B. The bids shall not be materially
modified or amended as to price, specification
or otherwise, nor substitutions placed thereon,
after opening except when the lowest bid is
from a non-local bidder. When the lowest bid
is from a non-local bidder, any local bidder
within two percent of the lowest bid may
match the lowest bid. If a local bidder matches
the lowest bid, then the Supply Commissioner
may select the bid from the local bidder. If
more than one local bidder is within two
percent of the lowest bid, then only the lowest
local bidder may match the bid. In all other
circumstances, modification, supplementation
or amendment shall cause rejection of the bid.
For purposes of this chapter, local bidder
means a bidder whose principal place of
business is within the City of St. Louis, has
had a valid business license for at least one
year, and is current in payment of local taxes.
Principal place of business shall be defined as
the business’s physical office, plant, or site
where a majority (51%) of the full-time
employees, chief officer, and managers of the
business regularly work and conduct business,
or where the plant or office and equipment
required for the furnishing of the goods or
performance of the services provided to the
City, as required by the contract, are physically
located in the City of St. Louis for at least one
taxable year immediately prior to the date of
the bid.

C. Bids may be for one or more or all the
articles advertised for, but there shall be a
specific bid on each article. The award may be
made to the lowest bidder for any article, or
to the lowest bidder for the entire requisition
or any part thereof, but the Board of
Standardization may reject any or all bids or
any part of any bid.
SECTION THREE. Severability.

The provisions of this section are
severable. If any provision of this ordinance
is declared invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions of the ordinance which
can be given effect without the invalid
provision.
Approved: April 29, 2013

The right to reject any and all bids is
reserved
Carol L. Shepard, CPA
Supply Commissioner
(314) 622-4580
www.stlouis-mo.gov

